Businesses are not currently obliged to provide a workplace pension scheme, but the 2008 Pensions Act requires employers to have a qualifying pension arrangement in place from 2012. Employers will be obliged to automatically enrol jobholders onto the scheme and make a minimum contribution to the arrangement. Providing a workplace pension scheme has a number of benefits. There is income tax relief available on both the employers and employees contributions, and where the employer is a corporation, corporation tax is also available.
Of the different work pension plans available, the stakeholder scheme has the minimum standards. Under this scheme, the money contributed is used to buy investments, and the investor must be prepared to lose out if these investments do badly. The benefit of this scheme is that it is flexible in that if employees change jobs, they can continue to make contributions to the scheme, although any payments the employer makes will cease.  Employees can also make irregular or low payments with no penalties.
If a business has more than five employees over the age of eighteen who earn more than the lower earnings limit, and offers no other pension arrangement, it must offer its employees access to a stakeholder pension.  If the company has four employees and takes on a fifth, all employees must be given access to a plan within three months of the fifth employees recruitment.
The company need not make any contributions, but must offer its employees a payroll deduction facility.  If the employer does contribute, a condition can be set up that the employee also contributes. Employers must keep a record of any payments they make, but beyond this, the scheme requires no administration, as this is done by the provider. The costs for this are deducted from the fund.  Annual charges are low, capped at one percent of funds.
Stakeholder pensions are available from a number of banks and other financial service providers, and it pays to shop around. Find a reputable pension provider which is registered by the Pensions Regulator. Although a well-established firm is preferable, past performance is not a reliable indicator of future returns. Also make sure that your pension all your employees can join the scheme as some limit membership to people working in certain trades.