As the economy gradually shows signs of improvement, many organizations are thinking once more about the best way to attract and retain employees. But there is some uncertainty as to how best to attract those currently aged between 22 and 29, commonly termed Generation Y. One company has spent millions on a unique program of team-building activities and social responsibility initiatives which are aimed to attract Gen Y employees.   Whether such measures are necessary is debatable, but there are certainly ways in which businesses can get the best out of their younger employees. 

One thing Ys crave is feedback  a dull word for anyone from former generations, where the term tends to have negative connotations.But Ys view it as a method of training and an opportunity to improve. By tapping into this channel and providing constructive advice, managers can motivate and coach their young staff. Giving praise can boost morale and will also clarify what you expect from your employees. Meanwhile, if you've got a bone to pick, don't wait for the annual performance review. Point out where they went wrong and how they can improve on the same day.

Gen Y-ers are the first generation to be unconsciously competent users of digital technology. They grew up with the internet, and while their written skills and memorizing skills may not be as honed as their predecessors, the skills gained in front of the screen can benefit all businesses.  Brought up on Google, they know how to do on-the-spot research to find solutions and information in minutes. Moreover, in a world of fast-changing technology, they are also best placed to tell you what the next up-and-coming thing is on the blogosphere.Paying attention to them will keep you on your toes ideas-wise.

Gen Y-ers tend to be optimistic and have a rosy outlook about their long term opportunities.  Consequently, they are switched on to the idea of choice, and so they are more likely to shop around to find the position they really want, or the organization that they really want to join. Some have interpreted this as a sign of disloyalty, although research shows that Y-ers are actually no less loyal than their predecessors.   But since they do not face the same constraints as previous generations have done in their life decisions, they will explore different career paths rather than locking on to one. In response, businesses can hold onto their best young staff by making sure that different options are open to them.