Russell and his wife had lived for several years in the picturesque village of Lymm where the crumbling 130-year old tower stood. The grade II listed building was one of several hundred surviving water towers which were built in the 1800s to improve public health across Britain. This particular tower was currently being used by three mobile phone companies to anchor their telephone masts. Russell regularly walked along the footpath beside the tower, and when it went up for auction in 1997, he impulsively put in a bid for £138,000.

But finally it all paid off. The end result is both contemporary and luxurious. The original tower houses a ‘winter' living room on the ground floor. Above it is a master bedroom with an en suite bathroom on a mezzanine. Above that, there is an office, guest room and a room for the telecom equipment. Atop it all is a roof garden with views stretching as far as Manchester and Liverpool.

Work finally began when planning permission was granted in 2002. But before the new structure could be built, substantial work had to be done to the existing tower. The stonework was cracked and the turret was damaged. Two skilled stonemasons worked for six months on its restoration. It was then sandblasted, the water tank was removed, and huge steel frames were put into place to support the new floors. Only then could foundations be laid for the extension.

Over 60 companies were involved in the construction, and Russell gave up work to act as project manager. There were problems at almost every stage. If something could go wrong, it inevitably would. Spirits plummeted and costs spiralled, and Russell and Jannette could do little but look on as their savings dwindled.

Russell and Jannette had just finished renovating a 1920s farmhouse nearby. This was done in a much more traditional style. By the time they'd finished with it, the once-roofless property had the typical Aga, log-burning stove, rugs, country pine furniture, dried flowers and knick-knacks. Chintzy in comparison to the modernist design they attached to the water tower. Since the work on the tower, they have become a real converts to minimalism.

Colour is added to this stark interior by the creative use of lighting, which was designed by Kate Wilkins, responsible for the lighting scheme at the Tate Modern Art Gallery. The lighting is subtle, mostly made up of simply concealed fluorescent strips or cold-cathode tubes. The innovative approach to lighting design won them the prestigious Lighting Design Award.

Fate, however, had other ideas. Russell and Jannette had to battle town planners and local opposition to get their dream on the road. Five years along, work still hadn't started and the couple were losing heart. All this changed, however, when they met the architect Julian Baker, who drew up plans for a contemporary design blending old and new. His inspirational ideas gave them the impetus they needed to kick-start their project.

