To all staff

The hospital is always trying to cut its carbon footprint, and to do this, we want to encourage staff, visitors and patients to use environmentally-friendly forms of transport to and from the hospital. Therefore, we are making the following changes, which will come into effect from 1st April:

Car Park A will stay as a staff car park, but, to encourage car sharing, it will only be available to cars containing 3 passengers or more.  This rule will be in place between 7am and 6pm.  A car park attendant will monitor users. Note that cars do not have to leave the car park with three passengers.   The parking fee will remain at the current price of £1 an hour up to a maximum of £5 per day.  If you are interested in car sharing and wish to find members of staff who live in your area or along your route, please click on the link on the human resources page of the hospital website.  Car Park C, previously a staff-only car-park, will now be open to visitors at the increased cost of £2/hour up to 5 hours, and £1 an hour after that. These new rates will also apply to staff/visitor Car Park E. Car Park B will only be open to blue card holders.  Only senior and emergency staff are eligible for this card.

Car park D will no longer be in use, as it will make way for an improved bus park. The current bus service (Service 56D) from the city centre will be replaced by two services. The service will be available to staff, patients and visitors alike.

Service 57A will run from: Hebdon Town centre, Hebden Station, Critchley Park and Ride, Grafton Street Train Station, Portchester  City Centre (Bus Stop D on Mill Yard) to the hospital. The service will run 24 hours a day every 20 minutes between 7am and 7pm and once an hour during the night.

Service 62A will run from Oldgrave Town Centre, Kings Wood Park and Ride and Polegate Park and Ride to the hospital every 15 minutes between 7.30 am and 7.00 pm and once every 30 minutes thereafter.

The buses will have a flat rate of £1 per journey. Staff will be able to buy a bus pass valid for 20 trips for just £15. These can be purchased on the bus. 

Staff can also purchase a Go! pass from the human resources website. The Go! pass costs £45 and entitles users to park at any of the city’s park and ride services for just £2 a day. It is valid for one year. 

There will also be an improved lock-up shed for bicycles and motorcycles in the former car park D. Hospital staff may wish to take advantage of the voucher giving 50% off all cycles and cycle accessories bought from Perkin’s Wheels, which is downloadable from the Human Resources website. Note that you will have to show your staff ID card at the store when making purchases. There will be a fix-it session once a fortnight in car park D on Fridays at 2pm- 5pm. At this time, bicycle mechanics from Perkins Wheels will give advice on bicycle upkeep and make minor bicycle repairs free of charge. 
We hope you will take advantages of these schemes.


