Do funny or interesting things happen to you a lot? Do you think hundreds of thousands of people will want to listen to you tell stories about your life?

That’s what life is like for YouTube star, Jessii Vee. More than 150 million people watch her videos of funny stories about herself, and subscribers to her channel grow every day.

Twenty-three-year-old Jessii from Ontario, Canada, turns her life into her work, six days a week. ‘I spend all of Sunday having ideas for videos to film that week,’ says Jessii. ‘Then, on Monday, I wake up early to start making the videos. Usually, a video takes just over an hour to make. I try to make around five, so it takes most of my day. Then, from Tuesday to Friday, I edit them.’

Jessii also spends a few hours a week writing to her fans. Sometimes she meets fans because people recognise her when she goes out. ‘The other day I went to buy coffee,’ she says, ‘and the girl serving me almost dropped my coffee when she saw it was me. She left the coffee shop to meet me outside to take pictures. It always makes me happy to see my fans are happy.’

Online life isn’t all good. In the past, Jessii felt bad when people said negative things about her. ‘Some people online are so quick to write hate comments,’ she says. Some people said that she has really big cheeks and a really thin mouth. It made her feel bad until she found a different way to think. ‘People were negative about things that I can’t change. So I decided to love those things and I became more confident in myself. Only people who don’t feel good about themselves make hate comments.’

If you want to start a YouTube channel, there are some things to think about. One thing you might want to do is turn off the comments. Then you won’t get any negative ones. Being safe is very important, so don’t show your face or real name and don’t tell people where you live. One of the most famous YouTubers, DanTDM, a 26-year-old English man, didn’t show his face in the beginning and now his videos have over 10 billion views (5 billion people all over the world watched the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympics).

Jessii has some advice about what kind of videos to make. ‘Be yourself. Don’t change to try to make people like you. They will love YOU! When I first started YouTube, I wanted to look good and do things in ways that people would like. In my old videos, I don’t look comfortable because I'm not being myself. But in my videos now, you can see that I’m 100 per cent myself. I’m crazy and strange, and I don’t care what people think.’

Jessii also says you should make your channel about something you really care about because that will inspire people. People know when you’re not being the real you because you just want to be popular. ‘Make videos about something you love and your channel will grow much faster, believe me!’

Nicola Prentis
