There was a long line of people outside the TV show Find A Star. Mr Miller and his daughter, Chloe Miller, were at the front. 'My daughter's the best singer,' said Mr Miller. 'Her voice is like gold.'

But Chloe couldn’t sing. She was afraid because one of the judges was famous record producer Simon King. She ran to the bathroom to cry.

A little man came in. 'I can help you,' he said. 'I’ll turn your voice to gold. How will you pay me?'

'I only have this ring,' said Chloe.

'I'll take that!' he said.

When Chloe sang her voice was beautiful and the judges stood up to clap.

'You can be on the show,' said Simon King.

The next month, Chloe and her father arrived for the TV show. Again, Chloe was afraid. In the bathroom she cried. How will I sing like that again? But, again, the little man came. 'Give me your necklace and I'll make you sing like gold,' he said.

Once more, all the people loved every song she sang. She won the first show, the second and third, all the way to the final. Her father told all the newspapers, 'My daughter is going to win.' Chloe tried to look happy but, really she didn’t want to be a singer.

The little man came, but Chloe had nothing to give him. She was afraid. 'I'll open my mouth and everyone will know I can't sing.'

'One day, you can pay me,' said the little man. 'I'll ask you for something and you will have to give it to me.'

Chloe said yes and she won the competition. She made a record with Simon King on King Records. Her album sold millions and her manager – Mr Miller – became rich. But she didn't enjoy singing, so she began to act instead. She went from small TV shows to big films. She forgot all about the little man.

One year, she was nominated for an Oscar. The night before the Oscars, the little man came again. 'Give me your first Oscar,' he said, 'or I'll tell the world how you really won Find A Star.'

'I'll give you all my money,' she said, 'but please don't tell everyone. I've worked so hard for that Oscar!' she cried.

'If you can guess my name in three days,' he said, 'you can keep your Oscar – and your secrets.'

On the first day, Chloe guessed 'James, Ahmad, Danil, Ji-hun'. But they were wrong. On the second day she guessed 'Drake, Justin, Kanye, Zayn'. But they were wrong too. Chloe had only one more day to guess. So she went to Twitter and searched #guessmyname and #Oscars. After hours, she found someone called @Rumpelstiltskin. He wrote, 'Ha ha ha, tomorrow the Oscar goes to … ME :)))) #guessmyname'.

Next day, the little man came and said, 'Guess my name or I'll take your Oscar and share your secrets on Twitter.'

'Is your name … Rumpelstiltskin?' she asked.

'Ahhhh,' shouted Rumpelstiltskin. He hit his foot so hard on the floor that it made a hole and he couldn't pull it out. Chloe Miller got the Oscar for Best Actress and lived happily ever after.

Nicola Prentis
