Does your pet have a problem? In an advertisement on a website, an expert in animal communication states that she can talk to animals, ask them their problems and what kind of assistance they would like from you, and report back to you. All animals and all kinds of problems are within her capabilities. An exact fee is not given, but you are discreetly encouraged to contact her for further information.

Until now, it has been generally believed that only humans possess language. Attempts were made in the 1960s to teach human speech to chimpanzees two animals managed to communicate with humans in this way, but with limitations, and scientists later decided that they were not producing true language, but only responding to prompts. Recent scientific breakthroughs, however, may mean we have to question our assumptions about how animals communicate.

Several scientists claim to have discovered that some animals use verbs, nouns and adjectives, just as we do. By studying the distress calls of some animal species and videotaping the animals as they made them, he was able to see what the animal was reacting to. He found that the cries told their fellows what kind of predator was approaching, and how fast it was moving. They could tell the difference between individual predators, using such information as their hunting habits, and if the threat was a man, they could to some extent describe his size and shape, the colour of his clothing, and even whether he was carrying a gun. Different colonies of one species were found to have different dialects, which proved that the calls cannot be inborn, but must have been learned from previous generations.

A psychologist has given further weight to these ideas by claiming to have discovered not just that some animals can communicate more complex ideas than previously thought, but also that some of this language can be understood by other species. His team recorded monkeys calls and found that, as in the other experiment, these changed according   to the threat or opportunity approaching. When the team played back the calls to other monkeys, they understood the different meanings. More surprisingly still, it was found that other monkey species could differentiate between the calls, and so could certain species of birds.

So perhaps the Internet expert is right. If so, what could this mean for humanity? We have long regarded ourselves as unique amongst animals, and accepted that this confers rights upon us to rule over our fellow creatures. Must we reconsider our position? Only time will tell.

