The Coach Hotel
Rating: ★★★☆☆    164 reviews 
Patsy190 writes:            
6 of us stayed here for the weekend. The first thing we noticed on entering our room was how small it was. Our rooms were clean, but the bed cover was stained.  The furniture was really outdated, especially the bathroom, which had an old pink suite and linoleum on the floor. The ‘shower’ was a hose that you fit onto the taps.  The sink was in the bedroom, right next to the television sockets which seems pretty unsafe to me. We had dinner there, and it was well-cooked, but we were still hungry afterwards because the servings were so tiny. The drinks prices were extortionate - £5 for a small glass of wine. My friend ordered a brandy and coke, but the waitress brought him whisky and coke. When we complained, she just walked off!  Not impressed. I would like to say it was cheap and cheerful but at £120 a night, it was neither - overpriced and depressing more like.
MellowBunny writes:            
Just returned from a 3 day break here, and thought that the Coach Hotel was very good value for money. I had requested a quiet room and this was noted at reception. I got a great room - large, comfortable and clean, with a seating area overlooking the racecourse. The only disappointing thing was that there were no tea/coffee facilities in the room - not even a kettle. The furniture and decor was not particularly up-to-date, but that’s what you would expect from an old hotel. There was a wide selection of well-cooked food on offer. At breakfast I had poached eggs, and they were done to perfection. In the evening, I had a delicious three-course meal, and I wasn’t kept waiting for ages between courses, which is definitely a plus when you’re dining alone. I found the staff friendly and always willing to help. 
TomWheeler writes:
The hotel’s is just 200 metres walk away from the racecourse, so it’s really convenient. There’s plenty of space to park. The bed was comfortable with clean cotton sheets. Good power shower. I would agree with some of the less favourable reviews on the site too, though. The room definitely needed some attention – it smelt musty and the furniture was old, cheap and battered.  The bin hadn't been emptied from previous guests, and there was other rubbish on the floor. The fan in the bathroom was very loud, and the plumbing made strange noises in the night. The walls were thin too. Breakfast was okay, but there wasn’t much of it. 
JadeUnicorn writes:
Don’t be fooled by the pictures online. What you see is definitely NOT what you get!  First, it’s not close to the city centre – it’s at least a 35 minute walk. Furniture was old and dated, although the bed was comfortable. Tiny bathroom, with an absurdly loud extractor fan. No lock on the bathroom door and no toiletries, not even soap. There were cobwebs all over the hotel. The dining room is dark and uninviting, with no windows except one tiny one. The food simply was the type that gives Britain a bad name. Instant coffee and cheap sausages. Service was poor, with staff clearing the table while we were still eating. 

