Travel guide: California
1. San Francisco
Fisherman's Wharf is a historic marketplace on the seafront with trendy restaurants, shops and street performers. Visit Ghirardelli Square, home to the amazing Ghirardelli Ice Cream and Chocolate Shop, and Pier 39, a lively marketplace with shops, restaurants and music. From here you can take a cruise round the Bay.

2. Golden Gate Bridge
Connecting San Francisco and Marin County, this is the largest suspension bridge in the world and one of the most famous Californian landmarks. As you cross the 4200-ft bridge below the famous orange towers, you'll enjoy awesome views of the entire Bay Area.

3. Alcatraz Island
Once a high-security prison, Alcatraz Island is one of the Bay Area's most interesting tourist attractions. Take the ferry from Pier 41 and visit the dark cell blocks that were home to America's most wanted criminals.

4. Santa Cruz
Go to the Santa Cruz Surfing Museum, which is in a lighthouse, and see classic boards including one eaten by a shark – the surfer survived! Next stop, the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk for a ride on the Giant Dipper rollercoaster.

5. Venice Beach
This is where skateboarding started, so you must visit the famous skate park right on the beach. Also watch the bodybuilders at Muscle Beach Gym, which is where Arnold Schwarzenegger started his career.

6. Hollywood
You can stand in the footprints of Johnny Depp at Grauman’s Chinese Theatre and then meet his strangely accurate wax model, along with Hugh Jackman, Lance Armstrong, and Brad and Angelina, all at Madame Tussauds Hollywood. Discover how films are made at the working movie studio at Universal Studios Hollywood, where there are also exciting park rides and shows.

7. Los Angeles
Have you ever wanted to record yourself? Now you can at the fascinating Grammy Museum. You can also learn how to dance like Michael Jackson, and find out about the links between blues and rap.

8. Disneyland
One of the most magical places in the world, Disneyland Park has hundreds of rides such as Space Mountain, Indiana Jones Adventure, Matterhorn and Pirates of the Caribbean. A day in Disneyland is a day you will never forget!
