The distinctive bacteria of Swiss cheese were more localized to midtown Manhattan and the  nancial district, and the bacteria used to ferment cabbage for kimchi and sauerkraut showed up in the  nancial district and Bay Ridge.
But, like many fans, they said they loved the atmosphere, if not the logistics, of this tournament which has got off to a spectacular start on the pitch.
The Environment Minister, Jan Szyszko, makes no secret of being a hunter.
This will bring much happiness.
The atlas shows how words and related terms exercise the same regions of the brain.
McDonalds has a bigger menu than some, with more complicated items  its chicken McWrap takes 60 seconds to make.
This guy had to be darker than any modern European, but we dont know how dark, the scientist said.
The website ATMInventor.com concludes: Who invented the idea of an ATM?
There is the feeling that they have to hide the fact that they are rich.
Since the outbreak of the crisis in 2009, Kethea has lost 70 of its 500 staff.
Cockrell, a former Wall Street worker turned therapist, spends large parts of his days walking through Central Park or the Battery Park in downtown Manhattan near Wall Street, as a con dant and counsellor to some of New Yorks wealthiest people.
With his Icelandic wife, Kristin, Cardew is appealing against a decision by the National Registry in the capital Reykjavik not to renew their ten-year-old daughter Harriets passport on the grounds that it does not recognize her first name.
And with no friends accounts to follow online, he has to pick up the phone and call them, something hes come to de nitely enjoy.
But what we are finding is that the mistakes are being made by the models which predict less warming, not those that predict more.
Money is not the only thing that de nes you, he said.
The worst case is Saudi Arabia, where people think only 28% are, when 71% are.
Brazil said its views were endorsed last month by other members of the Amazon Cooperation Treaty (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Suriname and Venezuela).
A DNA test was done and it was found it was not his baby and not her baby.
Climate sceptics like to criticize climate models for getting things wrong and we are the first to admit they are not perfect, said Sherwood.
Under the same conditions, a quarter of women pressed the shock button.
Apple, and the record industry, cannot afford to get rid of the download market just yet  so streaming and downloading will have to coexist under the Apple brand, one representing the future as the other gets progressively slower and sicker.
For all adults, this rises to 20% and, for young adults, it is still three times as high at 9%.
I wrote a real love story and a homage to feminine beauty, especially interior beauty.
Species that cause diarrhoea and nausea, both benign and bad E.coli (mostly benign), and the bacteria that can cause skin infections and urinary-tract infections were common all over the city.
Robert Mys_ajek stops dead.
He was very friendly, very inquisitive and a popular attraction here.
Even in successful countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam, the proportion has been 20%.
A few weeks earlier, Riley, Dunn and another former referee, Peter Jones, made their way to another level-5 match to monitor another referee tipped to progress  John Brooks.
Is this the moment when streaming goes truly mainstream?
He cautioned that the false memories created in the mice in the experiments were far simpler than the complex false memories that have generated controversy within psychology and psychiatry  for example, false memories of childhood sexual abuse, or even memories for bizarre ritualized satanic abuse, abduction by aliens, or past lives.
5 Facebook makes news, breaks news and decides what is news Roughly 71% of 18- to 24-year-olds say the internet is their main news source and 63% of users overall, according to the Pew Research Center.
The most remarkable change is in time spent talking on the phone.
This is not a beer that is aimed at women  its our hoppiest brew, says Thomas Bingebo, the head brewer at Ocean.
An Apple spokesman said he had never heard of PRISM.
He once explained that his guitar technique was partly based on his lack of skill: I started to bend notes because I could never play in the bottleneck style, like Elmore James and Booker White.
When Im drumming with them, it gives me power because were still alive and survivors.
Wolves are  along with the brown bear, the lynx and the wolverine  Europes last large predator carnivores.
To avoid the same fate, hes spending money to build a patio.
Singh, a 42-year-old salesman, and his friends are far from alone.
We knew the books would be beautiful but we didnt realize it would be such a phenomenal success.
I wrote a real love story and a homage to feminine beauty, especially interior beauty.
Known as Lady Dinahs Cat Emporium, it is yet to open but is billed as somewhere people can come in from the cold to a comfortable wingback chair, a hot cup of tea, a book and a cat.
We need new models for how artists, writers and musicians earn a living from their work.
In 1989, when the communists relinquished power, Poland had only one motorway.
For three-and-a-half years, all pupils at St Ninians Primary have walked or run a mile each day.
In the most senior roles, female directors received bonuses of 36,270 over the past 12 months, compared with 63,700 awarded to male directors.
Americans think that 33% of their population are immigrants, when in fact it is only 14%.
Some people were draped in South African flags and the green, yellow and black colours of Mandelas party, the African National Congress (ANC).
As you can see, everything here is fine but we have to hit the terrorists, these extremists, an army officer announced.
After the Sharpeville massacre, in which 69 black protesters were shot dead by police, he took the difficult decision to launch an armed struggle.
DNA tests have established that Polish wolves are travellers.
4C would likely be catastrophic rather than simply dangerous, Sherwood said.
So far, there is no established treatment for the social problems caused by autism.
Councilwoman LaToya Cantrell, who introduced and pushed the ban, disagrees: The responsibility is on the bar-owner to keep their clientele respectful outside their establishment as well, she says.
We will continue to  ght with the facts because the facts are on our side, he said recently on a conference call with journalists and analysts.
Councilwoman LaToya Cantrell, who introduced and pushed the ban, disagrees: The responsibility is on the bar-owner to keep their clientele respectful outside their establishment as well, she says.
He cited the need for both parties to find common ground and take steps together to help our economy grow and create jobs, which is critical to solving our debt.
If he does not mate successfully soon with one of two female northern white rhinos at Ol Pejeta Conservancy in Kenya, there will be no more of their kind, male or female, born anywhere.
From 2006 to 2008, Duran took out 68 commercial and personal loans from 39 banks in Spain.
Rodri, 37, London: Around 50% of a waiters income is tips Average tips: 60 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... the US  Everything has got fairer since the tipping scandal was exposed in the summer of 2015.
The actor Mark Rylance has called it his favourite book in the world and most of the surviving First Folios will be on display  including those belonging to the British and Bodleian libraries, and a tattered copy recently discovered in France.
But many of the other injuries were after death, suggesting a gruesome ritual on the battlefield and as the kings body was brought back to Leicester, as he was stripped, mocked and mutilated.
Can it actually make the streets more dangerous?
In Belo Horizonte, police clashed with protesters who tried to break through a cordon around a football stadium hosting a Confederations Cup match between Nigeria and Tahiti.
It topped the UK album chart and yielded a top 10 single, Jump They Say.
The general public and many academics have consistently underestimated the importance of Stratford to Shakespeare.
Smokers are the key group for e-cigarette  rms because seven out of ten vapers are smokers.
People have been digging metals and ores here since Roman times, after all.
I make around 20 a shift but would only be given 10-15 of that money.
They spend 20% of their time viewing short video clips, for example on YouTube, or news clips distributed via Facebook and other social sites.
The victims had their blood tested for alcohol levels.
Quali cations: A university degree, typically in automotive/mechanical engineering or motorsport technology.
The majority (68%) choose five-star hotels overseas.
China is the biggest coal importer, and Indonesia the biggest exporter, having temporarily overtaken Australia.
If the amount of food wasted around the world were reduced by just 25%, there would be enough food to feed all the people who are malnourished, according to the UN.
He did not believe he had found the king.
DNA tests have established that Polish wolves are travellers.
Needle in a haystack With modern technology, it seems strange that Malaysian flight MH370 could disappear without a trace  yet, finding a missing aircraft is a needlein- a-haystack problem.
Jenny Flahaut, 33, who works at a childrens home, was inspired to volunteer after seeing an advertisement on Facebook.
Councilwoman LaToya Cantrell, who introduced and pushed the ban, disagrees: The responsibility is on the bar-owner to keep their clientele respectful outside their establishment as well, she says.
The  ndings seem to show that children born in the early months of the school year enjoy a double autumn advantage  they are already known to have an academic advantage and, now, they also appear to be better equipped for sport, too.
It has just over 3,000 beds for visitors, compared with tens of thousands on an island such as Rhodes.
Lots of her friends cant pay for heating or medication and many would go hungry if it were not for the East Hampton Food Pantry, she says, which is just one of several food pantries in the town.
Without their contribution, the history of this great club would not be as rich.
Buildings warm up in a number of different ways.
We do need to make sure we are encouraging these businesses to invest in our country as they are, but they should be paying fair taxes as well.
And, we are not producing a new generation of these kind of acts  the likes of the Rolling Stones, Muse, even the Arctic Monkeys  that can headline.
However, ACEA fully accepts that RDE will apply to new types of cars from September 2017.
If youve trained hard enough your entire life, or the last few weeks, and you believe you can do it and come through it, theres no reason.
Kensington Palace announced at 8.30pm that the baby was born at 4.24pm in the exclusive Lindo Wing at St Marys Hospital, Paddington, West London.
It is outrageous that anyone can steal an artists work and get away with it.
The house owner was not my friend but I talked with him for three hours, and now he is my friend.
Lots of her friends cant pay for heating or medication and many would go hungry if it were not for the East Hampton Food Pantry, she says, which is just one of several food pantries in the town.
His manuscript, now delivered, will be sealed and placed alongside Atwoods in a wood-lined room in Oslos new public library, which will open in 2019.
To see what driverless cars might look like in action, go to the video at: vimeo.com/37751380.
According to the IEAs Medium-Term Coal Market Report the world will burn 1.2bn more tonnes of coal per year by 2017 compared with today  the equivalent of the current coal consumption of Russia and the US combined.
Getting older doesnt have to mean getting lonelier, says Ruth Sutherland, the chief executive of the relationship counselling service Relate, in a new report.
The age of the big British summer music festival, including Glastonbury, is drawing to a close, according to the leading rock promoter and manager Harvey Goldsmith.
The National Theatre, the Royal Shakespeare Company and virtually every other theatre production company in the country will be marking the anniversary.
Hearing that subtle click is harder if theres a lot of noise around you.
But renting a one-bedroom flat would cost more than 420 a month before bills, which would take up a lot of her earnings.
For instance, water can be extracted from ice in the soil and Mars has sources of nitrogen, the primary element in the air we breathe.
However, you still hear horror stories from new employees at some chains.
There must be something wrong with this country, said Nadia al Husin, holding up a banner calling on the government to do more for education.
Quali cations: You dont necessarily need a degree in computer science.
The magazines editor, Rachael Jolley, said: Existing copyright laws dont work in the digital age and risk criminalizing consumers.
But, authorities suspected he was not paying taxes on the clothes, furniture and other goods he was importing from China.
Were not producing a new generation of this kind of act.
The Globo newspaper listed a number of shortcomings in the 12 host cities.
Numbers who use e-cigarettes while continuing to smoke are going down, West said.
Allen still plays the piano and gives speeches.
Here, at the central African countrys  rst ice- cream parlour, customers can buy scoops in sweet cream, passion fruit, strawberry and pineapple  avours.
There were about 900 music festival events in the UK between May and September 2014, he said, and there is no way they can all continue.
I thought she might send me  owers as it was a declaration of love for her, but she didnt understand, Delacourt said.
Brazilians tend to be too nice sometimes  they enjoy partying rather than protesting  but something is changing, said Deli Borsari, a 53-year-old yoga instructor.
The move to bring BlackBerry to the iPhone is four or five years too late, says James Gooderson, an 18-year-old student who blogs on technology.
London has about 22,000 licensed black cabs and Conyon estimates that the total number of people who drive taxis for hire in the UK is about 100,000.
Valter Piscedda, the centre- left mayor of Elmas, a small town near Sardinias capital, Cagliari, wants to pay residents to leave.
Hearing a click off a salmon is probably one of the most challenging things a killer whale does.
The industry accepts individuals with a very wide range of academic quali cations and skills.
Mitchell revealed only the name of the manuscript, From Me Flows What You Call Time, during a ceremony in the Norwegian woods next to where Patersons 1,000 trees are planted.
The  ndings seem to show that children born in the early months of the school year enjoy a double autumn advantage  they are already known to have an academic advantage and, now, they also appear to be better equipped for sport, too.
Teffs tiny seeds  the size of poppy seeds  are high in calcium, iron and protein, and boast an impressive set of amino acids.
Amin, 61, from rural Bangladesh, has seen his livelihood gradually decline, due to his own and his wifes illnesses, the cost of his sons marriage, the death of his father and loss of goods such as  shing nets.
In other countries, there have long been much higher levels of support and acceptance of the bene ts of organic food and farming.
One waiter, who doesnt work for PizzaExpress but has worked for 11 years for another restaurant chain, said that at least a third of his income is from tips.
Can false memories be artificially created?
The official timeline for the mission says the group plans to dispatch a stationary lander and satellite to Mars in 2018, followed by a rover in 2020 and cargo missions starting in 2022.
Already in the pipeline are plans for a new shark exhibition in Orlando and an attraction in San Antonio that will allow customers to swim with dolphins in a naturalistic setting.
They are taken care of so the whole situation is not going to repeat at the new house they are in, says Boer. 
Describing the average sleep loss per night for different age groups, he says: Between 14 and 24, its more than two hours.
In 1995, two mothers were awarded damages after their sons, born in 1989, were accidentally switched at the Johannesburg hospital where they were born.
Automation Driverless cars have been in the headlines ever since Google began road testing the vehicles back in 2012 but no-one really knows when driverless cars will become commonplace.
Its really unfair that tips go towards breakages made by customers.
It is a majestic rectangle of strong bone and leathery  esh, a head that expresses pure strength.
Vicki Littman, chairperson of the East Hampton Food Pantry, which provided more than 31,000 food parcels in 2015, says the number of people seeking out the food pantry is ever increasing.
Kelley says the working day should be more forgiving of our natural rhythms.
Farmers in Europe, Israel and Australia have also experimented with it.
About a year and a half ago, he said in 1969, all of a sudden, kids started coming up to me saying, Youre the greatest blues guitarist in the world.
Speaking outside 10 Downing Street, David Cameron said: It is wonderful news from St Marys, Paddington, and I am sure that, right across the country, and, indeed, right across the Commonwealth, people will be celebrating and wishing the royal couple well.
Even the contacts and calendar sharing that BBM made possible on BlackBerry handsets have not migrated to the Apple and Android versions.
In London, they are also creating a 37-screen pop-up cinema, one screen to showcase each of Shakespeares plays, along the South Bank.
Now, we need to build another one, he says with a grin.
There are far greater numbers of southern white rhinos and black rhinos.
Dave Prentis, of the trade union Unison, said: The vast majority of workers are only on these contracts because they have no choice.
Mys_ajek says only scienti c arguments  the need to regenerate forests and control the wild animal population  can save Europes wild carnivores, especially the unpopular wolf.
South American Indians have chewed coca 3 leaves for centuries.
But the president made clear he did not expect another bitter budget fight and shutdown in 2014.
4C would likely be catastrophic rather than simply dangerous, Sherwood said.
Suneel Singh, a guru in south Delhi, agreed that yoga did not belong to any one religion: Is tai chi just Chinese?
In his office overlooking the square, Rjukans energetic young mayor, Steinar Bergsland, is interested not so much in the cost but in the benefits the mirrors might bring to the town.
La Premiere chose quon regarde (The First Thing We Look At) by Gregoire Delacourt tells the story of a French model who looks so similar to the American actor that the books lead male character thinks it is Johansson herself.
What the job involves: A company will pay an ethical hacker to hack into its computer system to see how well it might stand up to a real attack.
The researchers found much higher levels of cadmium, a toxic metal, in conventional crops.
So, just like our mouse, it is quite possible we can associate what we happen to have in our mind with bad or good high-variance ongoing events.
She said closing tax havens, which the Tax Justice Network says hold as much as $31 trillion, or as much as a third of all global wealth, could yield $189bn in additional tax revenues. 
In China, the top 10% now take home nearly 60% of the income.
For a man famous in his own lifetime, there is little documentary evidence for Shakespeares life and times.
Our properties have told us its important to be able to reorganize staff rotas quickly to respond to the weather and zero-hours contracts allow us to do this.
The Globo newspaper listed a number of shortcomings in the 12 host cities.
Among 6- to 7-year-olds, who have grown up with YouTube, Spotify music streaming and online television, the average DQ score was 98, higher than for those aged between 45 and 49, who scored an average of 96.
Such gaps could ultimately decide who became a top-level athlete because, as the paper says, selection into elite sports may often depend on very small margins or differences in an individuals physical performance.
And those waiting outside were the lucky ones.
The device can take in enough air for two minutes of diving and takes approximately the same amount of time to be re lled.
After the disaster, Spain woke up to the fact that it possessed a place of real ecological importance and did a lot to clean it up and protect it, he added.
One weekend they concocted the recipe and the next they brewed 1,600 litres.
He keeps his BlackBerry for messaging, uses an iPhone over wi-fi to play games and makes phone calls on an HTC-branded Android phone.
French wine was, of course, allowed and French-Canadian singer Cline Dion, but not, according to his advisers, French bands such as Daft Punk, who sing in English.
Smoker Neil Timms owns an English pub and met the smoking ban before, in England.
Even though classmates post about parties and events on Facebook, they make sure to send him a text message, too, he said.
In Belo Horizonte, police clashed with protesters who tried to break through a cordon around a football stadium hosting a Confederations Cup match between Nigeria and Tahiti.
In 2006, the Irish designer completed a scuba-diving course and loved the feeling of being able to breathe underwater and observe  sh in their natural environment.
Typical salary: The entry-level salary is usually around 14,500 and a top salary can be up to 22,000.
The positive side of this is peoples performance, mood and health will improve.
The canoe is our island, the crew members are the community and the navigator is the leader, Pittman says.
Lauren Raskauskas, 22, Naples, Florida Raskauskas describes herself as a pretty private person.
It has been dramatic in Latin America, for instance, where countries like Brazil and Paraguay had life expectancy of below 30 in 1970 and almost 64 in 2010.
Theyre not at all dangerous but they are almost pure muscle and they can be a little bit slimy, says Stephen Mowat, an eel conservationist and ecologist for the Zoological Society of London.
Some ships are quieter than others but the average intensity of noise next to all the ships was 173 underwater decibels, equivalent to 111 decibels through the air  about the sound of a loud rock concert.
The overall reoffending rate in Sweden stands at between 30 and 40% over three years  to compare that with another European country, the number is around half that of the UK.
Data collected by Ofcom (the independent regulator and competition authority for the UK communications industries) suggests that, between November 2012 and January 2013 in the UK, 280 million music tracks were digitally pirated, along with 52 million TV shows, 29 million films, 18 million ebooks and 7 million software or games files.
Unworried, Geoff Douville says that hes used to noise complaints by now so bring on the ban.
And with no friends accounts to follow online, he has to pick up the phone and call them, something hes come to de nitely enjoy.
A British woman, Lauren Pears, raised 100,000 to open a cat caf in London through the site.
For many people, a blank sheet is very daunting; with a colouring book, you just need to bring the colour.
We want everyone to be who he and she is  whether they are gay and lesbian or stand up to violence and are then victims of harassment.
If you are part of the 1%, you still have problems and they are legitimate to you.
I wont touch those jobs anymore.
Theres a big difference between sharing sensory information and being able to plan.
I dont believe its whitening; its more the way they are producing her with makeup, hairstylists and the way she dresses, he said.
Oxfam said world leaders should learn from countries such as Brazil, which has grown rapidly while reducing inequality.
Imagine the setup  a person is told to sit in a chair with wires attached to their skin and a button that will deliver a harmless but uncomfortable shock, and they are told to just sit there and entertain themselves with their thoughts, she said.
It is a majestic rectangle of strong bone and leathery  esh, a head that expresses pure strength.
The reality is that there is little work here, said Alessandro Macis.
The problem is that, in the US and UK, most people who want to sign up for Facebook have already done it, said new media specialist Ian Maude at Enders Analysis.
At which point, we may need a whole new sort of sleep revolution. 
More than 18 million people are already facing serious food shortages across the Sahel.
The people of Kiruna have been living in limbo for ten years, says Viktoria Walldin, a social anthropologist who works with the architects.
Now, without doubt, it is loved by millions of other people.
I work hard and am good at my job but, when PizzaExpress thinks it can get away with taking a percentage of our hard-earned tips left on a card, I get upset.
Like her grandfather, Erdmann said, she also liked culture and travelling around the world.
In London, they are also creating a 37-screen pop-up cinema, one screen to showcase each of Shakespeares plays, along the South Bank.
How quickly things change.
In fact, he earned just 10 from the patent and has not made a penny more from it since.
But, whatever happens, someone wont be happy.
The staff and I have been pretty sad.
Tourist numbers are down 80% this year, said Mayor Maria Kakali, in an of ce in the village where she grew up, home to around 200 people.
A little later, the football club secretary arrived with envelopes to pay the officials for their time  the match fee at level 5 is 95 so it is safe to assume these men do not do it for the cash.
Some ships are quieter than others but the average intensity of noise next to all the ships was 173 underwater decibels, equivalent to 111 decibels through the air  about the sound of a loud rock concert.
Its four years later: you can understand she doesnt want to give up her baby.
This tells us that we could create a workable network of animal brains distributed in many different locations.
People are used to very low rents and very high incomes but, in future, this will have to change.
This learned deafness is a real issue, Fristrup told the American Association for the Advancement of Science meeting in San Jose.
Retailer Sports Direct recently became the focus of controversy on zero-hours when it emerged that the company employs around 20,000 of its 23,000 staff on the contracts.
Race engineer A race engineer liaises between the driver and the mechanics.
Theres no way I could have banned smoking in my bar without it being a rule throughout the whole city, says Douville.
At a far smaller rally in Brasilia, demonstrators broke through police lines to enter the high-security area of the national congress.
Kosuke Morita, who led the research at RIKEN, said his team now planned to look to the uncharted territory of element 119 and beyond.
Coldplay is probably the last one to come up and that was ten years ago.
In 2006, the Irish designer completed a scuba-diving course and loved the feeling of being able to breathe underwater and observe  sh in their natural environment.
The figures, released by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), reveal that men in UK management roles earned average bonuses of 6,442 in 2012 compared with 3,029 for women.
But they say Nepal needs to do more to protect the habitat and animals on which tigers prey so the big cats have enough space to roam and food to eat.
But Pelphrey said oxytocin might help the brain learn from social interactions; it would work best when used with therapies that encourage people with autism to engage more socially, he said.
They spend 20% of their time viewing short video clips, for example on YouTube, or news clips distributed via Facebook and other social sites.
So, just like our mouse, it is quite possible we can associate what we happen to have in our mind with bad or good high-variance ongoing events.
The law dictates that the names of children born in Iceland must  unless both parents are foreign  be submitted to the National Registry within six months of birth.
A lot of my job is listening to peoples lives all day, every day and it started to feel so overwhelming to go on social media and see every single detail of everybodys life, including people that I dont really have a relationship with, she said.
Even in successful countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam, the proportion has been 20%.
Weve only been tracking vaping for just over a year, so its a short time period, but we are not seeing growth in the number of long-term ex-smokers or never smokers using e-cigarettes.
According to the IEA, demand from China and India will drive world coal use in the coming five years, with India likely to overtake the US as the worlds second biggest consumer.
The campaign has a Facebook page and is supported by groups including Greenpeace, the World Wide Fund for Nature and the Spanish branch of conservation network Birdlife.
In Inuvik, where much of the population is Inuit, the Muslim community has sought to strike a balance between Ramadan and the local culture and traditions.
This guy had to be darker than any modern European, but we dont know how dark, the scientist said.
Its something uniting people here, Kalisa Migendo, a 24-year-old agriculture student, says.
He spent two months in prison before being bailed for 50,000.
Typically, pilots must  y beside the power line, sometimes as little as 20 feet away and just 30 feet off the ground.
In China, the top 10% now take home nearly 60% of the income.
But, whatever happens, someone wont be happy.
Does he know more about his state of health than the Vatican has so far made public?
Earlier, Todd had told the press conference: The world needs a hero right now, and they got one in Felix Baumgartner.
The use of all-body suits is expensive  they cost about 30,000  and can be uncomfortable, and Anderson and his colleagues are now looking at low-cost alternatives.
Martha Wood lives beside a loud bar that hosts live music.
Its very uplifting in a way because its a solution that will make people less ill, and happier and better at what they do.
Longstanding Uncut campaigner Anna Walker said Weve chosen to really highlight the impact of the cuts on women.
Numbers who use e-cigarettes while continuing to smoke are going down, West said.
Shoppers are usually repaid any money they spend in the stores and may also be allowed to keep the products they buy.
On the parched grass not far from the India Gate monument at the centre of Delhi, they stretch, breathe and meditate.
The musicians are Hutu and Tutsi women, some survivors of the 1994 genocide, during which almost a million Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed.
The work I can create, as mayor, is temporary.
The of cial title of the expedition is the Mua Voyage and it is a partnership between the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Oceania Regional Of ce and  ve Paci c Island countries: Samoa, Tonga, New Zealand, the Cook Islands and Fiji.
Even the contacts and calendar sharing that BBM made possible on BlackBerry handsets have not migrated to the Apple and Android versions.
In restaurants, because a lot of customers add tips through card payments, the staff never actually see how much is getting tipped  so we dont know whether were getting our fair share or not.
Thats 65 litres of clean, drinkable water that were infusing with soap and washing down the drain each and every day  sometimes more than once.
He said he hoped the research would provide a baseline of research for health of cials and geneticists, and could help health of cials to be better prepared to prevent and track diseases and pathogens. 
On the brains right-hand side, near the top of the head, is one of the brain spots activated by family terms: wife, husband, children, parents.
You have 20kg to 50kg of gear with you  you cant be walking on the beach and decide you want to go in.
For those aged 12 to 15, phone calls account for just 3% of time spent communicating through any device.
The 500 note was introduced in 2002 when the euro was born: it replaced the 1,000 Deutschmark, the 10,000 Belgian franc and the 500,000 Italian lira.
I think its about communication and creating partnerships between the communities and the businesses.
He told The Guardian that the applicants so far ranged in age from 18 to at least 62 and, though they include women, they tended to be men.
Axani had made headlines in 2014 after offering an air ticket to any Canadian named Elizabeth Gallagher.
I raised the money and built the farm, learned the proper tank layout and water flow system, said Sheehy.
That same day, he climbed up to the summit of Everest itself, reaching the top in complete darkness early on Sunday.
They are more popular than nicotine patches and may or may not be more effective.
British people think the top 1% wealthiest households own 59% of their countrys wealth, when they actually only own 23%.
The extent of the bene ts have yet to be determined but researchers from Stirling University have launched a comparative study to look for quantitative evidence of the physical, cognitive and emotional bene ts of the daily mile.
The main goal of the 6,000-nautical-mile (11,000km) trip was to deliver a special message to the World Parks Congress.
Tom Sanders, a professor of nutrition at Kings College London, said the research did show some differences.
In the US, the share of national income going to the top 1% has doubled since 1980 from 10 to 20%, the report says.
Brands dont want to commit to paying so that rich factory owners who have just pocketed the profits and not been spending on their factories for years continue to do so.
We also have terri c public transport, with the underground working 24 hours at weekends, and it only costs 1 per trip.
Leifert and his colleagues conclude that many antioxidants have previously been linked to a reduced risk of chronic diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative diseases and certain cancers.
We know sitting still kills; not sitting still helps children build skills that will stay with them for life.
They spend 20% of their time viewing short video clips, for example on YouTube, or news clips distributed via Facebook and other social sites.
There were a lot of girls in shock.
He didnt want to risk leaving the US  it was him, not Elvis, said Goldsmith.
It shows the power of Star Wars that, although they were disappointing, the prequels still managed to make a lot of money, said Rosser.
He didnt want to risk leaving the US  it was him, not Elvis, said Goldsmith.
It would be more accurate to call them scum houses than scum villages, says Boer, because we dont want to put more than one of these families in the same area.
In a three-year period, the number of paying subscribers rose from 8 million to 28 million, according to the 2014 digital music report from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI).
Is this the moment when streaming goes truly mainstream?
Alexs vision, energy and ability have built teams  both on and off the pitch  that his successor can count on as among the best and most loyal in world sport.
Health warnings covering nearly two-thirds of cigarette packs and a ban on menthol cigarettes across the EU have come a step nearer following a vote in the European Parliament.
However, we are disappointed with the decision to reject the proposal to regulate nicotine-containing products (NCPs), including e-cigarettes, as medicines.
Have you ever used pink slime in your burgers?
If  nding peace and quiet becomes dif cult enough, many, many children will grow up without the experience and I think its a very real problem, he said.
But meat and fish  expensive, luxury products in Liberian markets but essential sources of protein  remained elusive.
Bolivia, ranked 46, despite being one of the poorest countries, has introduced progressive policies for older people, with a national plan on ageing, free health care and a non-contributory universal pension.
The project is a key plank in Moroccos ambitions to use its untapped deserts to become a global solar superpower.
A more open and connected world is a better world.
According to the IEAs Medium-Term Coal Market Report the world will burn 1.2bn more tonnes of coal per year by 2017 compared with today  the equivalent of the current coal consumption of Russia and the US combined.
A DNA test was done and it was found it was not his baby and not her baby.
When water evaporates from the oceans, the vapour can rise over nine miles to form rain clouds that reflect sunlight; or, it may rise just a few miles and drift back down without forming clouds.
There are a lot of people that are hiding their wealth because they are concerned about negative judgment, said Traeger-Muney.
Without their contribution, the history of this great club would not be as rich.
The conventional school starting time works for 10-year-olds but not 16- to 18-year-olds.
We are conditioning ourselves to ignore the information coming into our ears.
Early estimates suggested more than 100,000 square metres of glass had been broken and 3,000 buildings hit.
And I just thought: You shouldnt be ashamed of this.
Reality meets talent show with no ending and the whole world watching.
The Globo newspaper listed a number of shortcomings in the 12 host cities.
On a canoe, you are not just going from one destination to another using the stars, the moon, the sun and the birds.
The canoe is our island, the crew members are the community and the navigator is the leader, Pittman says.
The vital importance of clean water is becoming harder and harder to ignore, as California enters another summer of drought.
The way clouds affect global warming has been the biggest mystery surrounding future climate change.
The only rules were they had to stay seated and not fall asleep.
Per person, that amounted to hearing roughly 25,000 words  and more than 3,000 different words  as they lay in the scanner.
We asked waiters around the UK what they think of the tipping process (including how much they take home from tips and whether its fair) and what would improve it for them.
But it doesnt mean theyre gonna win. 
Were talking about preserving them for hundreds to thousands of years, said Cerf. 
The media, she said, is partly to blame for making the rich feel like they need to hide or feel ashamed.
There are a lot of people that are hiding their wealth because they are concerned about negative judgment, said Traeger-Muney.
Hair follicle testing is also pointless, the guide says.
To the researchers surprise, 12 of 18 men gave themselves up to four electric shocks, as did six of 24 women.
Health warnings covering nearly two-thirds of cigarette packs and a ban on menthol cigarettes across the EU have come a step nearer following a vote in the European Parliament.
Children that get a high-quality  rst experience, which develops their physical literacy, are those that will have greater agility, balance and coordination, and are more likely to develop an enjoyment of physical activity and excel in sport as they grow up, he said.
While this may mean that online study is unattractive or difficult for someone without high-level qualifications, it does, he says, suggest that MOOCs could be a really good tool for continuing education.
We all  politicians, business and people  have an interest, and a responsibility, to act to ensure we protect what we all value: a healthy future for people and nature.
Relatives are to have a clear right of objection, giving them the chance to show that the deceased would not have wanted to be an organ donor.
Amazon has applied for dozens of new domains, including .shop, .song, .book and .kindle.
Dave Prentis, of the trade union Unison, said: The vast majority of workers are only on these contracts because they have no choice.
The first three repetitions will feel easy but the last two will feel impossibly hard.
Unworried, Geoff Douville says that hes used to noise complaints by now so bring on the ban.
The data and analytics available to you are extraordinary.
Gym rats can benefit by doing three strength sessions and three Tabatas a week.
Figures show smoking levels in England are at their lowest since records began  19.5 per cent  but we are determined to further reduce rates of smoking and believe this important step will help.
The activity in Western Australia is compounding the human tragedy of shark attacks.
When they are  nished, the four plants at Ouarzazate will occupy a space as big as Moroccos capital city, Rabat, and generate 580 mega-watts (MW) of electricity, enough to power a million homes.
It is a majestic rectangle of strong bone and leathery  esh, a head that expresses pure strength.
With little Ethiopian teff on the international market, farmers in the US have started planting the crop.
But he would also cite the earlier blues guitarists Blind Lemon Jefferson and Lonnie Johnson and the jazz players Charlie Christian and Django Reinhardt.
It is highly possible that people from different backgrounds and cultures will have different semantic brain atlases.
And the effects of climate change were already beginning to impact seriously on Paci c Islanders.
Faehrmann said the protests had shown Australians wanted sharks protected: Whats amazing is so many people in Australia love sharks.
The truth is the government doesnt pay much attention to the islands of the north Aegean, she said, so I would take all the kids from our school to the gates of parliament, to tell them: There is still life in these islands. 
Even Nigeria, with its oil wealth, spends only $650 per capita, Shepherd said.
This is very encouraging, said Maheshwar Dhakal, an ecologist with Nepals Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation.
Chinas Peng Shuai also said the heat had caused her to cramp up and vomit, and she had to be helped from the court after her 75, 46, 63 defeat to Japans Kurumi Nara.
To laughter, he added: The most beautiful moment was when I was standing on the landing area and Mike Todd [the life support engineer who dressed Baumgartner in his suit] showed up and he had a smile on his face like a little kid.
A few weeks earlier, Riley, Dunn and another former referee, Peter Jones, made their way to another level-5 match to monitor another referee tipped to progress  John Brooks.
Inzozi Nziza was opened by the theatre director Odile Gakire Katese.
There will also be hundreds of lectures, recitals, international academic conferences,  lms, concerts, operas and major exhibitions.
Hannah, a 41-year-old City lawyer, has conducted nearly 500 visits for the Mystery Dining Company in her spare time without receiving remuneration or travel expenses.
The trouble is that Spain does not have the public resources it possessed 16 years ago.
Oxfam said the worlds poorest could be lifted out of poverty several times over if the richest 100 billionaires would give away the money they made in 2012.
If recent research is to be believed, loneliness is killing the elderly and, with an ageing population, we should aim to reduce our isolation before it is too late.
What the job involves: A race engineer acts as the interpreter between the race-car mechanics and the driver, says race engineer Jamie Muir.
Each day, they typically spend up to eight hours visiting  ve to ten stores, plus another hour or two  ling detailed reports on every aspect of their visit.
Quali cations: A university degree, typically in automotive/mechanical engineering or motorsport technology.
And I just thought: You shouldnt be ashamed of this.
The last few weeks since Enchanted Forest came out have been utter madness, but fantastic madness, said Eleanor Blatherwick, head of sales and marketing at the books publisher, small British press Laurence King.
Instead, it has a smartphone app that summons it and tells it the destination, and a single STOP button mounted between the two front-facing seats in case the occupants need to override the computer.
Finnish mobilephone company Nokia dropped 41 places to 98th at $4.1bn, just ahead of Nintendo in 100th place (down 33).
The total was 121 billion minutes in December 2012, but that fell to 115 billion minutes in February, according to comScore.
Illegal downloading is a kind of moral squalor and theft, as much as reaching in to someones pocket and stealing their wallet is theft, says author Philip Pullman.
When the Russian capsule opened on to the cool air of Kazakhstan, Kelly said, he smelled a fragrance like a plant was blooming in that area.
Since the registry does not recognize the name of Harriets 12-year-old brother, Duncan, either, the two children have, until now, travelled on passports identifying them as Stlka and Drengur Cardew: Girl and Boy Cardew.
Steck, he says, was planning to climb Everests west ridge, first done in 1963, descend to the South Col and then immediately climb Lhotse via a new route, all without fixed ropes.
You see a lot of reconstructions of these people hunting and gathering and they look like modern Europeans with light skin.
Leifert and his colleagues conclude that many antioxidants have previously been linked to a reduced risk of chronic diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative diseases and certain cancers.
Dave Prentis, of the trade union Unison, said: The vast majority of workers are only on these contracts because they have no choice.
Retailers are becoming increasingly aware that shoppers who are prepared to set foot in a physical store want a service and an experience they cant get online, says Simon Boydell, spokesman for Marketforce, which has more than 300,000 mystery shoppers on its books.
But, protests have diminished since the opening day, when small demonstrations took place in several cities, prompting police to use tear gas and pepper spray.
The fall of the Berlin Wall helped de ne Vienna as the hub for companies wanting to do business in Central Europe.
A single brain spot is associated with a number of related words.
According to the study, those born in the 1990s are making 4% fewer car trips and travelling 18% fewer miles per year, on average, than members of previous generations did at the same stage in their lives.
Kelley says that synchronized hours could have many positive consequences.
Hearing that subtle click is harder if theres a lot of noise around you.
He then told me that a message in a bottle had been found and that the name that was on the card was that of my grandfather.
Back in 2005, when BlackBerry brought instant messaging to the mobile phone, the company was just entering its boom times.
Most noise is at that low frequency but the background noise of the ocean is raised even in the high frequencies.
Even in successful countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam, the proportion has been 20%.
What we did was to look at a set of current London taxi drivers and a set of London taxi drivers that had been retired for about four years, said neuroscientist Dr Hugo Spiers, head of the Spatial Cognition Group at University College London, who is an author of the study.
Audis were the favourite cars of 16% of winners, with Range Rovers and BMWs also popular purchases (11% each), as well as Mercedes (10%) and Land Rovers (5%).
On a canoe, you are not just going from one destination to another using the stars, the moon, the sun and the birds.
She said closing tax havens, which the Tax Justice Network says hold as much as $31 trillion, or as much as a third of all global wealth, could yield $189bn in additional tax revenues. 
The worst case is Saudi Arabia, where people think only 28% are, when 71% are.
Ethical hacker Typical salary: 60,000 to 90,000 at team- leader level, while a newly quali ed hacker can expect a minimum salary of 35,000 to 50,000.
You could put it on top of shopping malls.
In a three-year period, the number of paying subscribers rose from 8 million to 28 million, according to the 2014 digital music report from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI).
However, it also found that 30% were not saving any money.
By the end of the decade, the government hopes that, if passed, the law will push Japanese employees towards following the example set by British workers, who use an average of 20 days paid annual leave, and those in France, who take an average of 25.
Its a much more complex, multifaceted environment, says Benedict Evans, a digital media specialist at Enders.
For his part, Carlos Davila, who works for the Spanish Ornithological Society in Donana, was also alarmed at the proposal.
International activity is up 41% since December.
In brief remarks at the White House shortly before the House vote, Obama said he hoped the deal would lift the cloud of uncertainty that had hung over the country in recent weeks.
Those born in October were almost as  t, scoring highest for strength and coming third for power, with December children close behind.
The security situation is already bad.
Faehrmann said the protests had shown Australians wanted sharks protected: Whats amazing is so many people in Australia love sharks.
Maybe GPS signals are blocked or partially blocked, in which case its going to have an incorrect idea about where it is.
This is, potentially, a huge physical advantage, said Sandercock.
The way clouds affect global warming has been the biggest mystery surrounding future climate change.
He admits he doesnt know much about France but says that the classes are slowly helping him understand the country as well as the language.
Cockrell, a former Wall Street worker turned therapist, spends large parts of his days walking through Central Park or the Battery Park in downtown Manhattan near Wall Street, as a con dant and counsellor to some of New Yorks wealthiest people.
"There are riches here, riches that are badly needed by local inhabitants, said Vicente Fernandez Guerrero, secretary-general of Innovation, Industry and Energy for Andalucia.
Barack Obama flew back to Washington and his desk in the Oval Office on Wednesday, hours after delivering an election victory speech in Chicago in which he called for the country to unite behind him.
The trouble is that Spain does not have the public resources it possessed 16 years ago.
Riley, as a young referee, went out and bought himself books on psychology and nutrition as there was no information on offer to him at all.
She recently deleted her Twitter account and deactivated her Facebook account two years ago after realizing she didnt like everyone knowing what I was doing.
It means that the arrest of the gang leaders has been nullified because it has not had a long-term effect.
Until now, the differences between commercial, governmental and other types of identity were easily distinguished in every internet address by .com, .gov and 20 other categories.
And, in many ways, it is not our misperceptions but these realities across different countries that are the most interesting and important aspects of the study.
I really rely on tips because I am only paid 7 an hour.
You could use this on buildings so you have to spend much less on air conditioning or maybe you wouldnt need it at all.
What is it like to look at the very last of something?
It was Mathew Morris who first uncovered the body, in the first hour of the first day of the excavation.
It records changes in pulse, blood pressure, sweating and breathing to ascertain whether a subject is lying.
To add to the companys problems, McDonalds hamburgers were recently named the worst in America in a poll of more than 32,000 American  diners, who said they would rather eat a burger at Five Guys, Smashburger or Fuddruckers.
Theyve been left out of all of this for the last 18 years.
The distinctive bacteria of Swiss cheese were more localized to midtown Manhattan and the  nancial district, and the bacteria used to ferment cabbage for kimchi and sauerkraut showed up in the  nancial district and Bay Ridge.
Since the 2008  nancial crisis, the income gap has expanded and the situation has gotten worse for the wealthy, Cockrell said.
Industries where employers were most likely to report at least one person on a zero-hours contract were hotels, catering and leisure (48%), education (35%) and healthcare (27%). 
Theyve been left out of all of this for the last 18 years.
Steck, he says, was planning to climb Everests west ridge, first done in 1963, descend to the South Col and then immediately climb Lhotse via a new route, all without fixed ropes.
Health warnings covering nearly two-thirds of cigarette packs and a ban on menthol cigarettes across the EU have come a step nearer following a vote in the European Parliament.
The experiment cost Carle his smartphone, television, refrigerator (all made in China); his spectacles (Italian); his underpants (Moroccan); morning coffee (Guatemalan) and his adored David Bowie music (British).
As an adopted New Yorker, Bowie was the opening act at the Concert for New York City in October 2001, where he joined Paul McCartney, Jon Bon Jovi, Billy Joel, the Who and Elton John in a benefit show six weeks after the 9/11 attacks.
For the past ten years, the US National Park Service has recorded sound levels at more than 600 sites across the US, including Yosemite in California, Yellowstone and Denali in Alaska.
In fact, he earned just 10 from the patent and has not made a penny more from it since.
The sum of 1m in 500 notes fits easily into a small laptop bag, where the same amount in 50 notes would require a small suitcase.
According to the IUCN, as of 2013, the amount of the worlds oceans in marine protected areas was not even three per cent and less than one per cent of that is no take.
Allowing private companies to register geographical names as gTLDs to reinforce their brand strategy or to profit from the meaning of these names does not serve, in our view, the public interest, the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology said.
Smoker Neil Timms owns an English pub and met the smoking ban before, in England.
Imagine the setup  a person is told to sit in a chair with wires attached to their skin and a button that will deliver a harmless but uncomfortable shock, and they are told to just sit there and entertain themselves with their thoughts, she said.
The Seattle-based company has applied for its brand to be a top-level domain name (currently .com), but the South American governments argue this would prevent the use of this internet address for environmental protection, the promotion of indigenous rights and other public interest uses.
He spends his lift rides and spare moments at work reading news articles and books rather than scrolling through a newsfeed.
Danes have no problem having children before marriage so things can move fast and, because the countrys so small, a Jutlander can date a Copenhagener without too much travel, Limal said.
Buildings warm up in a number of different ways.
We spend hundreds of millions of pounds with local suppliers on milk, cakes and sandwiches, and on store design and renovations.
I will always cherish the wonderful memories he has given us, like that magical night in Moscow.
The anniversary of the death of the man from Stratford, the most famous and the most performed playwright in the world, will be marked across Britain and the globe.
There must be something wrong with this country, said Nadia al Husin, holding up a banner calling on the government to do more for education.
Quali cations: A private-helicopter-pilot licence, a commercial pilots licence and around 2,000 hours of experience  ying at low levels in the type of helicopter the company usually uses.
Leifert and his colleagues conclude that many antioxidants have previously been linked to a reduced risk of chronic diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative diseases and certain cancers.
To be able to dispose of the bombs safely, youll also need an explosive ordnance disposal quali cation and years of experience.
In 1989, when the communists relinquished power, Poland had only one motorway.
His eye is a sad black dot in his massive wrinkled face as he wanders the reserve with his guards.
And, they have been surprised that many bars are not set up with big screens for the games.
Now, Chinese house hunters are following Russians and Kazakhs who have spent millions securing an address estate agents tell them is as world famous as the Champs Elyses and Rodeo Drive.
On the brains right-hand side, near the top of the head, is one of the brain spots activated by family terms: wife, husband, children, parents.
He recently lost his job as a car-park attendant due to ill health and had to take in his  ve grandchildren after the death of his daughters.
Our overall thinking is that filming at concerts adds to the experience, rather than taking away from it and I think, if Kate Bush came round for a cup of tea, we could have a really interesting discussion about this and we might be able to win her round, he added.
Karabo Ngidi, a lawyer with the centre, said Whats going to happen must be in the best interests of the children.
Its crazy, really, having it at midnight  the police must have more important things to do at night than be called to sales.
The foods most commonly found in British bins are bread, vegetables, fruit and milk.
Ive created a lot of problems.
We know our country needs to change in the way it is governed and we know our country needs to change in who it is governed for.
We need new models for how artists, writers and musicians earn a living from their work.
To succeed as a bomb-disposal diver, you need ... to stay calm in stressful situations.
I asked how she did it: very slow breathing for several minutes prior to each dive, then a big, deep breath before diving in.
Its hard to say how much I earned a shift; maybe around 40, 20 from card tips.
Legos profits rose strongly in the first half of 2014, helped by the success of its Lego Movie, which has stormed box offices in the US and UK.
Argentina has lodged an expression of its unhappiness that the US outdoor clothing retailer, Patagonia, is claiming a domain name that has been known far longer as a region of spectacular beauty that also has its own parliament.
If it sounds familiar, its because the online world has been using techniques like these for years.
We may not yet be living in an age of  ying cars, as predicted in the 1985  lm Back to the Future II, but the rise of smartphones and other new technologies is creating a reality that is arguably as exciting and almost as far-fetched.
But, the rest of us live here year round.
Prices have indeed gone up but they havent gone up as quickly as the rest of the fast-service chains in the US.
Lego, based in the small town of Billund, started producing its plastic bricks in 1949 and became a staple childrens toy around the world by the 1970s.
Footage showed frightened Japanese supporters rushing from the area holding their children, as the sound of shots  perhaps rubber bullets or tear gas  was heard.
It was important to me to leave an organization in the strongest possible shape and I believe I have done so.
Almost 6,000 people have so far signed Unites online petition.
We are all in favour of anything that makes the referees job better and makes them more effective on the field of play, says Riley.
Amazon has applied for dozens of new domains, including .shop, .song, .book and .kindle.
All youre going to achieve, I think, is to worry people unnecessarily. 
Clearing hoarders houses full of rubbish, rats and excrement  among other things.
Alexs vision, energy and ability have built teams  both on and off the pitch  that his successor can count on as among the best and most loyal in world sport.
But now Brazil is once again in crisis, with a constant rise in prices, so people are finally reacting.
Karabo Ngidi, a lawyer with the centre, said Whats going to happen must be in the best interests of the children.
Prices have indeed gone up but they havent gone up as quickly as the rest of the fast-service chains in the US.
Zurich in Switzerland is named by Mercer as having the worlds second highest quality of life but the Viennese say their city is far more fun.
Those born in October were almost as  t, scoring highest for strength and coming third for power, with December children close behind.
And, then, there is the isolation  being in the 1%, it turns out, can be lonely.
A T-shirt is more expensive in France but I can be sure it has been produced by workers who are correctly paid and have good working conditions.
You see a lot of reconstructions of these people hunting and gathering and they look like modern Europeans with light skin.
Most crucial, said Chapron, has been the EU Habitats Directive, which has compelled member states to protect and revive rare species.
Maycon de Mattos Batista, a financial analyst who worked with Anitta while she was an intern, said there had been a huge change in Anittas image, but not of her colour.
But, whatever happens, someone wont be happy.
I think its about communication and creating partnerships between the communities and the businesses.
You need a 15-minute distance and typical off-the-shelf drones have about that distance.
Redmond says the mouthpiece feels similar to using a snorkel.
Benjamin Carle is 96.9% made in France, right down to his underpants and socks.
Thats 65 litres of clean, drinkable water that were infusing with soap and washing down the drain each and every day  sometimes more than once.
The site has come at an opportune time for the country of five million people.
In Belo Horizonte, police clashed with protesters who tried to break through a cordon around a football stadium hosting a Confederations Cup match between Nigeria and Tahiti.
Without it, his blood would have boiled and his lungs might have exploded.
In Britain, people think that an extraordinary 43% of young adults aged 25-34 still live at home with their parents, rather than the actual 14%.
Instead, he suggests a blended approach that combines a campus experience with a MOOC; also, perhaps, using MOOCs to create a global degree, with students taking courses from across the world, might be possible.
In other countries, there have long been much higher levels of support and acceptance of the bene ts of organic food and farming.
Housing is, by far, the biggest cost in the Hamptons.
I told myself that, if I took charge of a club again, Id hire a woman as my number two.
The institutes  gures also suggest that 17% of employers in the private sector made use of zero- hours contracts, considerably lower than the 34% of organizations in the voluntary sector and 24% in the public sector.
The typical swimmer can hold their breath for about 40 seconds while underwater, he says.
He is highly critical of internet users who think it is OK to download music or books without paying for them.
This learned deafness is a real issue, Fristrup told the American Association for the Advancement of Science meeting in San Jose.
The NSA access was enabled by changes to US surveillance law, introduced under President Bush and renewed under Obama in December 2012.
It is possible that this approach could be used to decode information about what words a person is hearing, reading or possibly even thinking, said Alexander Huth, the  rst author on the study.
Prices have indeed gone up but they havent gone up as quickly as the rest of the fast-service chains in the US.
In Elmas, the scheme has provoked mixed reactions.
And 39% are connected to people they have never met in person.
If you have a vehicle that can go into a neighbourhood, it can deliver from that base.
Now, I hope, men and women who want to start a family but havent met the right person yet will have another option, says Limal.
Whereas, in Silicon Valley, everyone is from everywhere.
In 1989, when the communists relinquished power, Poland had only one motorway.
And I just thought: You shouldnt be ashamed of this.
His eye is a sad black dot in his massive wrinkled face as he wanders the reserve with his guards.
One thing I really liked about Facebook was that I could sit for hours and click on a friend and then click on one of their friends and one of their friends and one of their friends and literally end up on someones Facebook page from the other side of the world, she said.
The figures, released by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), reveal that men in UK management roles earned average bonuses of 6,442 in 2012 compared with 3,029 for women.
Skip a few showers, put down the soap and let those lovely little bacteria  ourish a little, would you? 
I am grateful that I am healthy and I really want to prevent other people being injured.
All were tested between 2007 and 2010 on three different measures of  tness: stamina, handgrip strength and lower-body power.
Danes have no problem having children before marriage so things can move fast and, because the countrys so small, a Jutlander can date a Copenhagener without too much travel, Limal said.
Its a much more complex, multifaceted environment, says Benedict Evans, a digital media specialist at Enders.
Our customers are still very happy with the product, and technology and innovation in hardware is improving user experience and helping them to switch from traditional cigarettes.
You dont realize how safe Vienna is until you head abroad, said Hartlauer.
What is it like to look at the very last of something?
On average, they did not enjoy the experience.
If you have a vehicle that can go into a neighbourhood, it can deliver from that base.
Anil Varma, a local property developer, has decided to rebuild one of the most valuable sites on the avenue as a collection of 20 apartments with a concierge, maid service, 25-metre pool, spa and cinema.
Zurich in Switzerland is named by Mercer as having the worlds second highest quality of life but the Viennese say their city is far more fun.
His 91st birthday was marked by the first annual Mandela Day in his honour.
French is not as easy as English but, two weeks ago, I decided there was no way to get to the UK, says George, another Darfur refugee and dedicated student.
What he has done for this club and for the game in general will never be forgotten.
So, it better be good.
Food waste is happening in countries where people can afford to throw away food.
Our customers are still very happy with the product, and technology and innovation in hardware is improving user experience and helping them to switch from traditional cigarettes.
There will also be hundreds of lectures, recitals, international academic conferences,  lms, concerts, operas and major exhibitions.
Youre supposed to break your fast when its dusk and we eat when the sun is out.
Bar customers are encouraged to come  ll out a form or call 311 and to include date-and-time-stamped photographs documenting illegal smoking.
Bar customers are encouraged to come  ll out a form or call 311 and to include date-and-time-stamped photographs documenting illegal smoking.
He claims that he hasnt seen any effect at this point.
As the pollster notes: Trump says what theyre thinking and, the more outrageous he is, the more they agree with him.
I really rely on tips because I am only paid 7 an hour.
Britons think it is 44%, when it is actually nearly half as much again  62% are either overweight or obese.
She recently deleted her Twitter account and deactivated her Facebook account two years ago after realizing she didnt like everyone knowing what I was doing.
We as a society want to defend them.
I asked how she did it: very slow breathing for several minutes prior to each dive, then a big, deep breath before diving in.
If you have no fresh water and it doesnt rain for a few days, so you cant collect rainwater, you have basically had it.
Their Grecian columns are cracking into pieces and mosaic-tiled swimming pools are filled with rubble.
For three-and-a-half years, all pupils at St Ninians Primary have walked or run a mile each day.
The researchers used underwater microphones to measure the noise created by about 1,600 individual ships as they passed through Haro Strait, in Washington State.
But, protests have diminished since the opening day, when small demonstrations took place in several cities, prompting police to use tear gas and pepper spray.
Chitwan National Park in central Nepal has the highest number of adult tigers, with 120, followed by Bardiya National Park (50) and Shukla Phanta Wildlife Reserve (17).
The fall of the Berlin Wall helped de ne Vienna as the hub for companies wanting to do business in Central Europe.
Kelley says the working day should be more forgiving of our natural rhythms.
Krystian Zimerman returned moments later and declared: The destruction of music because of YouTube is enormous.
For people aged between 24 and about 30 or 35, its about an hour and a half.
The site levies a 4% fee for successful campaigns.
Going out with friends was problematic  no American films, no Belgian beer, no sushi or pizza.
The number of minutes Americans spend on Facebook appears to be falling, too.
Some critics are sceptical of farmed fish, citing inbred fish and high levels of toxins.
In what Mason called the  rst city-scale genetic pro le ever, his team found meningitis at Times Square, a trace of anthrax on the handhold of a train carriage and bacteria that cause bubonic plague on a rubbish bin and ticket machine at stations in uptown Manhattan.
They would not return to Earth.
The worst transport problems were in Natal, where bus drivers have been on strike since 12 June.
Metal grilles block the windows of another, which has been sold for 20m.
For example, it would make life difficult, if not impossible, in much of the tropics and would guarantee the eventual melting of the Greenland ice sheet and some of the Antarctic ice sheet, with sea levels rising by many metres as a result.
The other group did a ten-minute warm-up on the bike, followed by four minutes of Tabata intervals, four times a week  plus one 30-minute session of steady exercise with two minutes of intervals.
He claims that he hasnt seen any effect at this point.
Quali cations: To dive offshore, you must have diving-inspection and medical-technician quali cations.
Vienna is the worlds best city to live in, Baghdad is the worst and London, Paris and New York do not even make it into the top 35, according to international research into quality of life.
Weather disasters are also more likely in a warmer world, the report suggests.
"There are riches here, riches that are badly needed by local inhabitants, said Vicente Fernandez Guerrero, secretary-general of Innovation, Industry and Energy for Andalucia.
That, says the report, is often the first opportunity for violence in the home to be detected and for the woman to be offered help.
Coldplay is probably the last one to come up and that was ten years ago.
5 Facebook makes news, breaks news and decides what is news Roughly 71% of 18- to 24-year-olds say the internet is their main news source and 63% of users overall, according to the Pew Research Center.
We may not yet be living in an age of  ying cars, as predicted in the 1985  lm Back to the Future II, but the rise of smartphones and other new technologies is creating a reality that is arguably as exciting and almost as far-fetched.
We believe that its possible to export energy to Europe but,  rst, we would have to build the interconnectors which dont yet exist, said Maha el-Kadiri, a Masen spokeswoman.
Paralympian, Tanni Grey-Thompson, chair of ukactive, the UKs leading not-for-pro t health body for physical activity, said: All children need to achieve 60 active minutes every day, whether in a lesson, on the walk to school or in the playground.
After six weeks of testing, the group following Tabatas plan  exercising for just 88 minutes a week  had increased their anaerobic capacity by 28% and their VO2 max, a key indicator of cardiovascular health and maximal aerobic power, by 15%.
Really, it is a fantasy world, based in a particular time in history.
Forcing people outside the bar to smoke is going to exacerbate the tension thats already there.
The reality is that there is little work here, said Alessandro Macis.
We may as well get used to it, said David Kirkpatrick, author of The Facebook Effect.
Most of our customers are ageing baby boomers who want to rekindle the experience they had as a kid, says Pedegos Don DiCostanza.
He also said the heat had caused him to hallucinate: I was dizzy from the middle of the first set and then I saw Snoopy and I thought, Wow, Snoopy  thats weird.
After the man pulled me out of the water, Dusty swam away but, then, she came back and was bobbing vertically next to me, looking at me.
This is a huge day for Wales, for devolution and, most importantly, for the 226 people in Wales waiting for an organ transplant, said the Welsh Health Minister, Mark Drakeford.
You dont realize how safe Vienna is until you head abroad, said Hartlauer.
Although it allows you to stay underwater for longer, you have to plan your whole day around it.
What is societys attitude concerning the acceptability of certain forms of violence against women?
Known as Lady Dinahs Cat Emporium, it is yet to open but is billed as somewhere people can come in from the cold to a comfortable wingback chair, a hot cup of tea, a book and a cat.
The normal time limit for bringing a civil action is three to six years, a spokesman said.
Lost Loves Douville, though, feels the ban to be a great business opportunity.
Cockrell, a former Wall Street worker turned therapist, spends large parts of his days walking through Central Park or the Battery Park in downtown Manhattan near Wall Street, as a con dant and counsellor to some of New Yorks wealthiest people.
The trouble is that Spain does not have the public resources it possessed 16 years ago.
Its things like that  the hospital where your first child was born, for example  that are important to peoples sense of identity and all thats going to disappear.
You never see a reconstruction of a Mesolithic hunter-gatherer with dark skin and blue eye colour, Lalueza-Fox said.
A man stood at my door and told me he had post from my grandfather.
Communication between riders and drivers, between different vehicles and between cars and infrastructure is bringing transportation into a new era, according to Allan Clelland, an expert on transportation technology.
One part of the brain, for example, reliably responds to the word top, along with other words that describe clothing.
The Stand with Malala petition, calling for education for the 57 million children around the world who do not go to school, has attracted more than four million signatures  more than a million having been added shortly after Malalas speech.
The site has come at an opportune time for the country of five million people.
The Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh, the Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, Prince Harry and members of both families were informed and were delighted with the news that Her Royal Highness and her child were both doing well.
Peter Sands, the former head of Standard Chartered Bank, has called for the abolition of high-denomination notes, including the 500, the $100, the 1,000 Swiss Franc note and the 50.
Michael Day, 30, who lives with his parents in Bristol, says he has been caught between paying high rents and saving for a mortgage deposit.
It is highly possible that people from different backgrounds and cultures will have different semantic brain atlases.
In Britain, people think that an extraordinary 43% of young adults aged 25-34 still live at home with their parents, rather than the actual 14%.
According to the IEA, demand from China and India will drive world coal use in the coming five years, with India likely to overtake the US as the worlds second biggest consumer.
Pub group J D Wetherspoon has 24,000 of its staff  80% of its workforce  on the terms.
Ethical hacker Typical salary: 60,000 to 90,000 at team- leader level, while a newly quali ed hacker can expect a minimum salary of 35,000 to 50,000.
I said this just the other day to a big fat man.
I dont think its fair to anybody  to the players, to the fans, to the sport  when you see players pulling out of matches, passing out, he added.
A further criticism is that the differences seen may result from different climates, soil types and crop varieties, and not from organic farming, though the researchers argue that combining many studies should average out these other differences.
The second is education, from early childhood to the start of work, to enable people to escape and stay out of poverty.
In Elmas, the scheme has provoked mixed reactions.
The main goal of the 6,000-nautical-mile (11,000km) trip was to deliver a special message to the World Parks Congress.
Human beings  we always kill the things we love.
What about false memories for more than just contexts  false memories for objects, food or other mice?
When you breathe in, youre contracting the muscle of your diaphragm, pulling it  at so that the volume of your chest increases  and air is drawn into your lungs.
Although there has been no fall in crime rates, between 2011 and 2012 there was a 6% drop in Swedens prisoner population, now a little over 4,500.
It was Spains worst environmental disaster and the clean-up cost 90m.
From time to time, people allege that we have created a government back door into our systems, but Google does not have a back door for the government to access private user data.
All around the subway, bacteria associated with cheeses  brie, cheddar, parmesan and the mozzarella of ubiquitous New York pizza  turned up.
Violence has a profound effect on womens health.
Turner was born in 1775 in London, the son of a barber, and he entered the Royal Academy Schools at the age of 14.
The owners and bartenders need to tell them to go have a smoke but be respectful to their communities.
In the absence of death registries or medical records, they have been willing, for instance, to take evidence from verbal autopsies  deciding the cause of death by an interview with the family.
Valter Piscedda, the centre- left mayor of Elmas, a small town near Sardinias capital, Cagliari, wants to pay residents to leave.
At a pool in Bristol, she taught me some simple exercises to help me hold my breath for longer while swimming underwater.
Smokers are the key group for e-cigarette  rms because seven out of ten vapers are smokers.
It is highly possible that people from different backgrounds and cultures will have different semantic brain atlases.
In 2014, 1,215 rhinos were slaughtered for their horns in South Africa.
So after all these years, Goodfellow  nally  nds himself being talked about in the same breath as John Logie Baird (the television), Alan Turing (the Turing machine), Sir Frank Whittle (the jet engine) and Sir Tim Berners-Lee (the World Wide Web).
It was done to remove criticism of the police, Scraton said.
But Stratford is where he bought land and property, where he kept his library, where he lived and read and thought.
There are famous and very wealthy people but then you have hard-working and poor people struggling to get by.
From 2007, when just 13 rhinos were killed by poachers in South Africa, the killings have grown horri cally.
The nadir in the animals well-being occurred, on average, at 28.3 and 27.2 years old for the chimpanzees, and 35.4 years old for the orangutans.
Part of this is simply that air travel is inherently dangerous and, thus, standards are much higher.
Enter a department store and you will be watched.
The Spanish team went on to compare the genome of the hunter-gatherer to those of modern Europeans from different regions to see how they might be related.
Freddie Mercury had to be our most powerful stage performer, the best live performer weve ever had.
I want to work but theres no work to be done.
It is possible that this approach could be used to decode information about what words a person is hearing, reading or possibly even thinking, said Alexander Huth, the  rst author on the study.
It is outrageous that anyone can steal an artists work and get away with it.
She does, however,  nd it satisfying to return to a store she has previously mystery shopped and see standards have improved.
Even Nigeria, with its oil wealth, spends only $650 per capita, Shepherd said.
It was important to me to leave an organization in the strongest possible shape and I believe I have done so.
Tom, Manchester: A big night of tips can help pay the rent Average tips: 40 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... Italy  Where I used to work,  oor staff kept 80% of cash tips and 40% of card tips.
People have been digging metals and ores here since Roman times, after all.
In other words, do not go trekking near the border that separates the Indian and Pakistani controlled parts of J&K.
The Prince Hotel in Tokyo was forced to come clean after a diner complained in a blogpost that a scallop dish he had ordered contained a similar, but cheaper, type of shellfish.
Pizzi, who is now CEO of Currie Technologies, the number one seller of e-bikes in the US, believes thats about to change.
She now lives with her family in Birmingham and does what the Taliban tried to stop her doing: goes to school every day.
The thought of children across the country running every day because of something weve done is phenomenal.
The Reaper drone has one failure in 10,000 hours, Singh said.
The figures, released by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), reveal that men in UK management roles earned average bonuses of 6,442 in 2012 compared with 3,029 for women.
To discover the elements, researchers at the three labs slammed lighter nuclei into one another and looked for signature radioactive decays that should come from the new elements.
Patagonia is a relevant region for the countrys economy because it has oil, fishing, mining and agriculture resources.
Starbucks is a really great target because it is on every high street across the country and thats what UK Uncut finds really important: people can take action in their local areas, she said.
This is not a beer that is aimed at women  its our hoppiest brew, says Thomas Bingebo, the head brewer at Ocean.
In Elmas, the scheme has provoked mixed reactions.
So many come here to swim with her and they dont understand how dangerous it can be.
The same region responds to killed, convicted, murdered and confessed.
We may as well get used to it, said David Kirkpatrick, author of The Facebook Effect.
So far, there are high-detail maps of about 2,000 miles of Californias roads, but the state has more than 170,000 miles of public roads.
It was very surprising, Erdmann, 62, said, recalling how she found out about the bottle.
Can false memories be artificially created?
The Japanese team is believed to be considering three names for ununtrium: japonium, rikenium and nishinarium, after the Nishina Center for Accelerator-Based Science, where the element was found.
The researchers used underwater microphones to measure the noise created by about 1,600 individual ships as they passed through Haro Strait, in Washington State.
Each year, 1.3bn tonnes of food, about a third of all that is produced, is wasted, including about 45% of all fruit and vegetables, 35% of  sh and seafood, 30% of cereals, 20% of dairy products and 20% of meat.
The number of minutes Americans spend on Facebook appears to be falling, too.
There are some people who will not or cannot change.
Many of the extremely wealthy  the 1% of the 1%  feel that their problems are really not problems.
The other group did a ten-minute warm-up on the bike, followed by four minutes of Tabata intervals, four times a week  plus one 30-minute session of steady exercise with two minutes of intervals.
The swimming pool is filled with a foot of brackish water and has flowers growing through its tiles.
Weve only been tracking vaping for just over a year, so its a short time period, but we are not seeing growth in the number of long-term ex-smokers or never smokers using e-cigarettes.
To succeed as a bomb-disposal diver, you need ... to stay calm in stressful situations.
So thats a lot of stories, thats a lot of individuals and thats a lot of love for their home city of Prague.
I felt that people were looking at me in the wrong way, I began to struggle with loud noises and I suffered from memory loss.
When Im drumming with them, it gives me power because were still alive and survivors.
The website ATMInventor.com concludes: Who invented the idea of an ATM?
The website ATMInventor.com concludes: Who invented the idea of an ATM?
The MEPs voted to put health warnings on 65% of each cigarette pack, as opposed to a proposed 75%.
In the novel, the models looks mean that men see her only as a sex object, while women are jealous of her.
There are far greater numbers of southern white rhinos and black rhinos.
Figures show smoking levels in England are at their lowest since records began  19.5 per cent  but we are determined to further reduce rates of smoking and believe this important step will help.
Theres no demographic reason why we cant have a similar return of wildlife in the UK. 
We need new models for how artists, writers and musicians earn a living from their work.
We Can Do It is not a female beer but a beer brewed by women that anyone can drink, she says.
Footage showed frightened Japanese supporters rushing from the area holding their children, as the sound of shots  perhaps rubber bullets or tear gas  was heard.
Later, Obama met Jeremy Corbyn, who said they had an excellent 90-minute discussion.
What the job involves: A company will pay an ethical hacker to hack into its computer system to see how well it might stand up to a real attack.
Each day, they typically spend up to eight hours visiting  ve to ten stores, plus another hour or two  ling detailed reports on every aspect of their visit.
Job satisfaction: Getting to work outdoors and seeing British wildlife up close is the best part of the job, says Mowat.
The NSA access is part of a previously undisclosed program called PRISM, which allows officials to collect material including search history, the content of emails, file transfers and live chats, the document says.
For the past ten years, the US National Park Service has recorded sound levels at more than 600 sites across the US, including Yosemite in California, Yellowstone and Denali in Alaska.
The canoe is our island, the crew members are the community and the navigator is the leader, Pittman says.
The album topped charts in Britain and around the world.
4C would likely be catastrophic rather than simply dangerous, Sherwood said.
The results of the research are based on an analysis of 343 peer-reviewed studies from around the world  more than ever before  which examine differences between organic and conventional fruit, vegetables and cereals.
But Stratford is where he bought land and property, where he kept his library, where he lived and read and thought.
Ethical hacker Typical salary: 60,000 to 90,000 at team- leader level, while a newly quali ed hacker can expect a minimum salary of 35,000 to 50,000.
You could use this on buildings so you have to spend much less on air conditioning or maybe you wouldnt need it at all.
Her income is typically 30,000 to 40,000 a year and that doesnt include all the freebies she gets on the job.
Steve Deace, a prominent Iowa conservative, said that Trumps antics are both a good and a bad thing.
Conservationists argue there is no evidence the cull will reduce the number of shark attacks on humans, as no previous cull has solely used drumlines.
Kelley says the working day should be more forgiving of our natural rhythms.
Allowing private companies to register geographical names as gTLDs to reinforce their brand strategy or to profit from the meaning of these names does not serve, in our view, the public interest, the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology said.
The Spanish team went on to compare the genome of the hunter-gatherer to those of modern Europeans from different regions to see how they might be related.
Its not as simplistic as fish die and people starve  its more complex, said Isaac.
Doctors are delighted at the move.
A little later, the football club secretary arrived with envelopes to pay the officials for their time  the match fee at level 5 is 95 so it is safe to assume these men do not do it for the cash.
You have 20kg to 50kg of gear with you  you cant be walking on the beach and decide you want to go in.
So after all these years, Goodfellow  nally  nds himself being talked about in the same breath as John Logie Baird (the television), Alan Turing (the Turing machine), Sir Frank Whittle (the jet engine) and Sir Tim Berners-Lee (the World Wide Web).
It was important to me to leave an organization in the strongest possible shape and I believe I have done so.
Ageing is no fun, she admits, reading me a few lines from a poem she has written called That Beast Called Age.
According to research by the International Council on Clean Transportation in 2014, actual nitrogen oxide emissions from cars are seven times higher than the 80mg/km standard, with some models running at 22 times above the recommended limit.
There were about 900 music festival events in the UK between May and September 2014, he said, and there is no way they can all continue.
To the researchers surprise, 12 of 18 men gave themselves up to four electric shocks, as did six of 24 women.
Even the contacts and calendar sharing that BBM made possible on BlackBerry handsets have not migrated to the Apple and Android versions.
The conventional school starting time works for 10-year-olds but not 16- to 18-year-olds.
Its very uplifting in a way because its a solution that will make people less ill, and happier and better at what they do.
But we can disagree and also greatly respect her political achievements and her personal strength.
I want to work but theres no work to be done.
Customers expect seamless interactions, responsiveness, 24/7 accessibility, customization options and high levels of personalization, he said.
Bar customers are encouraged to come  ll out a form or call 311 and to include date-and-time-stamped photographs documenting illegal smoking.
The only reason to stop would be if it hurts my health, Karim said.
And, in many ways, it is not our misperceptions but these realities across different countries that are the most interesting and important aspects of the study.
Stratford remained hugely important throughout Shakespeares life, argues Paul Edmondson, the head of learning and research at the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
In my early years, the backing of the board, and Sir Bobby Charlton in particular, gave me the confidence and time to build a football club, rather than just a football team.
He cautioned that the false memories created in the mice in the experiments were far simpler than the complex false memories that have generated controversy within psychology and psychiatry  for example, false memories of childhood sexual abuse, or even memories for bizarre ritualized satanic abuse, abduction by aliens, or past lives.
Its chef, Ren Redzepi, says that ants taste like lemon, and a pure of fermented grasshoppers and moth larvae tastes like a strong fish sauce.
Communication between riders and drivers, between different vehicles and between cars and infrastructure is bringing transportation into a new era, according to Allan Clelland, an expert on transportation technology.
German-speaking cities dominate the rankings in the 18th Mercer Quality of Life study, with Vienna joined by Zurich, Munich, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt in the top seven.
I will always cherish the wonderful memories he has given us, like that magical night in Moscow.
Stratford remained hugely important throughout Shakespeares life, argues Paul Edmondson, the head of learning and research at the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
Its really unfair that tips go towards breakages made by customers.
The most remarkable change is in time spent talking on the phone.
The number of people who would enjoy coming out to our bar, with our food, but would never come because they didnt want to smell like smoke for the next seven days  were now an option for all those people.
Instead, they decide to train their powerful telescopes on Jupiter and Venus and later to pick out stars such as Capella and Betelgeuse.
As the pollster notes: Trump says what theyre thinking and, the more outrageous he is, the more they agree with him.
Criminologists from around the world have been travelling to Switzerland over the past few years to see the development of the new method for themselves.
In restaurants, because a lot of customers add tips through card payments, the staff never actually see how much is getting tipped  so we dont know whether were getting our fair share or not.
Worst thing about the job: Expect to be away from home at least six months of the year.
Argentina rejects the .patagonia request for a new generic top-level domain, the government notes in an appeal.
The real challenge is to allow those countries not just to consume and study MOOCs, but also to create them. 
Elizabeth Goitein of the Brennan Center for Justice said: The Intelligence Committee bill and the USA Freedom Act present two opposing visions of the relationship between law-abiding Americans and the national security state.
There must be something wrong with this country, said Nadia al Husin, holding up a banner calling on the government to do more for education.
We may as well get used to it, said David Kirkpatrick, author of The Facebook Effect.
The app also received information from their Facebook accounts, which the scientists used to check the accuracy of their results.
We have heard the voice of Scotland and, now, the millions of voices of England must be heard, he said.
The northern white rhino is the rarest species of African rhino.
Easily accessible from smartphones and tablets, subscription services are popular with people looking to try out new music without committing to buying a download or a CD.
Over the last three years alone, our company has paid more than 160m in various taxes, including National Insurance contributions, VAT and business rates.
According to the IUCN, as of 2013, the amount of the worlds oceans in marine protected areas was not even three per cent and less than one per cent of that is no take.
Nevertheless, there will be signifi cant geographical variations; many millions of people living in the developing worlds great cities, including Lagos and Calcutta, are threatened.
Back in 2005, when BlackBerry brought instant messaging to the mobile phone, the company was just entering its boom times.
The number of people who would enjoy coming out to our bar, with our food, but would never come because they didnt want to smell like smoke for the next seven days  were now an option for all those people.
Maycon de Mattos Batista, a financial analyst who worked with Anitta while she was an intern, said there had been a huge change in Anittas image, but not of her colour.
One waiter, who doesnt work for PizzaExpress but has worked for 11 years for another restaurant chain, said that at least a third of his income is from tips.
However, we are disappointed with the decision to reject the proposal to regulate nicotine-containing products (NCPs), including e-cigarettes, as medicines.
We believe that its possible to export energy to Europe but,  rst, we would have to build the interconnectors which dont yet exist, said Maha el-Kadiri, a Masen spokeswoman.
I just cant stop, she says, phoning me a few days after the interview to read out a ditty she has written about the joys of exercise.
Typically, pilots must  y beside the power line, sometimes as little as 20 feet away and just 30 feet off the ground.
Every village is digging a pit just beyond the houses for garbage.
Riley, as a young referee, went out and bought himself books on psychology and nutrition as there was no information on offer to him at all.
Electric bikes are different from motorcycles or mopeds, which rely on motorized power; they are bicycles that can be pedalled with  or without  assistance from an electric motor.
Food waste is happening in countries where people can afford to throw away food.
The charity National Trust, which employs many of its seasonal workers on zero-hours contracts, said it offered the same pay and bene ts to those workers, pro rata, as full-time staff, but needed some workers to be on a more  exible arrangement.
Schools should teach navigation and map reading as life skills, he wrote.
I manage one minute and 12 seconds.
Maria van der Hoeven, Executive Director of the IEA, said: Coals share of the global energy mix continues to grow each year and, if no changes are made to current policies, coal will catch oil within a decade.
Holger von Neuhoff, curator for ocean and science at the museum, said this bottled message was the oldest he had come across.
Wolves are  along with the brown bear, the lynx and the wolverine  Europes last large predator carnivores.
Only four out of McDonalds 14,000 US restaurants had so far tested build your own burger, he said, raising questions about how it could be scaled up.
It took us about a week to really figure each other out, Axani said.
The researchers found much higher levels of cadmium, a toxic metal, in conventional crops.
PizzaExpress joins restaurant chains Ask and Zizzi in siphoning off 8% of the tips paid by card but other chains deduct even more.
Danes have no problem having children before marriage so things can move fast and, because the countrys so small, a Jutlander can date a Copenhagener without too much travel, Limal said.
The device can take in enough air for two minutes of diving and takes approximately the same amount of time to be re lled.
Never being able to trust your friendships with people of different means, I think that is dif cult, said Cockrell.
On some sites, there was an option to click, saying: Id like kids someday, but you would read the persons profile and think: You will never have time!
Freddie Mercury had to be our most powerful stage performer, the best live performer weve ever had.
When water evaporates from the oceans, the vapour can rise over nine miles to form rain clouds that reflect sunlight; or, it may rise just a few miles and drift back down without forming clouds.
Housing is, by far, the biggest cost in the Hamptons.
It is possible that this approach could be used to decode information about what words a person is hearing, reading or possibly even thinking, said Alexander Huth, the  rst author on the study.
I dont know what training you have had, an editor yelled, but has no one ever told you a death toll cant go down?!
Its particularly true for those like Karim who have determinedly followed the local sunrise and sunset.
There may also be claims from Malaysia, where large numbers of people were detained during the 12-year war with communist insurgents and their supporters that began in 1948.
Lots of her friends cant pay for heating or medication and many would go hungry if it were not for the East Hampton Food Pantry, she says, which is just one of several food pantries in the town.
In my case, I have always found languages easy enough, apart from the numbers.
This is, above all, an idea born of common sense and experience, he told the Guardian.
It is outrageous that anyone can steal an artists work and get away with it.
In my opinion, its just a publicity stunt to get people talking about the club and she wont last the season.
Baumgartner was carried up into crystal clear skies by a gigantic balloon, which measured 30 million square cubic feet and whose skin was one-tenth the thickness of a sandwich bag.
When Im drumming with them, it gives me power because were still alive and survivors.
The data and analytics available to you are extraordinary.
Since 2013, Cuban authorities have opened hundreds of internet salons, where an hour online costs $4.50, at speeds far lower than those at Kchos studio of around 2mbps.
Elsewhere, there has been a glut of goals: 28 in the  rst eight games  almost three times as many as at the same stage in South Africa in 2010.
A later start to the day for many, says Kelley, is something that would bene t everyone, particularly families.
The right of indigenous communities in South 6 Americas Andean region to chew coca leaf was removed in 1964 when Bolivia was under a dictatorship and it signed up to the convention.
Basically there will be no such thing as the perfect murder any more as a virtual autopsy allows you to find every piece of evidence, he said.
If  nding peace and quiet becomes dif cult enough, many, many children will grow up without the experience and I think its a very real problem, he said.
I thought she might send me  owers as it was a declaration of love for her, but she didnt understand, Delacourt said.
Eleven current and former members of FIFAs executive committee have now been charged in the investigation, which alleges $200m in bribes, mainly as kickbacks from TV and marketing contracts but also FIFAs development programmes.
The Reaper drone has one failure in 10,000 hours, Singh said.
Inzozi Nziza was opened by the theatre director Odile Gakire Katese.
From all across Rwanda, and even parts of neighbouring Burundi, people  ock to the southern town of Butare to a little shop called Inzozi Nziza (Sweet Dreams).
Browning said: This research backs up what people think about organic food.
Days later, Blatter won a fifth term as president but later agreed to step down as the crisis grew.
Free to download and use, they use the internet to swap text messages, pictures, voice clips, stickers, and even videos in WhatsApps case, between most types of phones.
Deep in its eastwest valley, surrounded by high mountains, Rjukan and its 3,400 inhabitants are in shadow for half the year.
I work hard and am good at my job but, when PizzaExpress thinks it can get away with taking a percentage of our hard-earned tips left on a card, I get upset.
Speaking at the same meeting, Derrick Taff, a social scientist at Pennsylvania State University, described preliminary experiments which suggest that listening to recordings from national parks, of waterfalls, birdsong and wind, helped people recover from stressful events.
Perhaps most importantly, as more cities build cycling infrastructure, including dedicated bike lanes, bicycle commuting has become more popular.
Researchers at the University of Western Australia say the recent spate of shark attacks in the state may have more to do with the state having the fastest-growing population in Australia, rather than a rising number of sharks.
But one thing he couldnt do was change the elevation of the sun.
La Premiere chose quon regarde (The First Thing We Look At) by Gregoire Delacourt tells the story of a French model who looks so similar to the American actor that the books lead male character thinks it is Johansson herself.
Its that you need to know that this shopper has these characteristics and, in the past, that when those characteristics are present, this is what a person tends to do.
I want to work but theres no work to be done.
Basically, we are creating what I call an organic computer.
One part of the brain, for example, reliably responds to the word top, along with other words that describe clothing.
The researchers used underwater microphones to measure the noise created by about 1,600 individual ships as they passed through Haro Strait, in Washington State.
It still means fasting for some 18 hours a day, said Atif Jilani, who moved to Iqaluit from Toronto in 2015.
As soon as the children at one primary school in Stirling hear the words daily mile, they down their pencils and head out of the classroom to start running laps around the school  eld.
For people aged between 24 and about 30 or 35, its about an hour and a half.
Our customers are still very happy with the product, and technology and innovation in hardware is improving user experience and helping them to switch from traditional cigarettes.
Skip a few showers, put down the soap and let those lovely little bacteria  ourish a little, would you? 
But he would also cite the earlier blues guitarists Blind Lemon Jefferson and Lonnie Johnson and the jazz players Charlie Christian and Django Reinhardt.
After the disaster, Spain woke up to the fact that it possessed a place of real ecological importance and did a lot to clean it up and protect it, he added.
I dont even know how much it costs; I dont know even know if Im going to buy it.
He recently lost his job as a car-park attendant due to ill health and had to take in his  ve grandchildren after the death of his daughters.
There are a lot of people that are hiding their wealth because they are concerned about negative judgment, said Traeger-Muney.
Same with yoga.
Much better than an egg or a sandwich or a cup of tea, said Arvind Singh at 6.15am as he did his breathing exercises on a bench.
Only one compartment had a light that came on above the lever.
To be able to dispose of the bombs safely, youll also need an explosive ordnance disposal quali cation and years of experience.
The magazines editor, Rachael Jolley, said: Existing copyright laws dont work in the digital age and risk criminalizing consumers.
She has now exploded into the public consciousness with an album and a huge hit single, Show das Poderosas, which topped the charts and attracted 52 million YouTube views.
The move to bring BlackBerry to the iPhone is four or five years too late, says James Gooderson, an 18-year-old student who blogs on technology.
Glass-like ash particles melt in the heat of the engine, then solidify on the rotors.
Most winners (59%) give up work straight away, but 19% carry on doing the day job and 31% do unpaid voluntary work.
It was Spains worst environmental disaster and the clean-up cost 90m.
By 2017, the first real-world car emissions tests are expected to begin in earnest.
The charity National Trust, which employs many of its seasonal workers on zero-hours contracts, said it offered the same pay and bene ts to those workers, pro rata, as full-time staff, but needed some workers to be on a more  exible arrangement.
Americans think that 33% of their population are immigrants, when in fact it is only 14%.
Human beings  we always kill the things we love.
Maybe GPS signals are blocked or partially blocked, in which case its going to have an incorrect idea about where it is.
One in the army, one socially in my own private time and then one with the family and stuff like that.
The internationally renowned Cuban artist Kcho is providing the service.
The US was the favoured destination for 27%, followed by the Caribbean (9%).
Some danced, some posed for photos, some drank, but mostly they just walked and talked football, waiting for the next game to begin on the nearby FanFest big screen.
The right of indigenous communities in South 6 Americas Andean region to chew coca leaf was removed in 1964 when Bolivia was under a dictatorship and it signed up to the convention.
Along with new names, the scientists must propose two-letter symbols for the elements.
The artist said he wanted to encourage Cubans to familiarize themselves with the internet.
If we understand it better, hopefully we can do better at dealing with nuclear waste and things that are important in the real world.
Nearly 80% of young smartphone owners regularly use a social networking application, says the research firm Enders Analysis, but two-thirds use more than one.
In my early years, the backing of the board, and Sir Bobby Charlton in particular, gave me the confidence and time to build a football club, rather than just a football team.
The National Security Agency (NSA) has obtained direct access to the systems of Google, Facebook, Apple and other US internet giants, according to a top-secret document.
It was Spains worst environmental disaster and the clean-up cost 90m.
Researchers at the University of Western Australia say the recent spate of shark attacks in the state may have more to do with the state having the fastest-growing population in Australia, rather than a rising number of sharks.
BBM claims 80 million monthly users after its upgrade, but WhatsApp has 300 million.
The way clouds affect global warming has been the biggest mystery surrounding future climate change.
He said he was particularly annoyed by articles comparing his role as an Apache co-pilot gunner to Spitfire crews waiting to scramble during the second world war.
Footage showed frightened Japanese supporters rushing from the area holding their children, as the sound of shots  perhaps rubber bullets or tear gas  was heard.
My goal is to pair up people who really want a family and a partner  and wholl stay together.
Nearly 80% of young smartphone owners regularly use a social networking application, says the research firm Enders Analysis, but two-thirds use more than one.
There is the feeling that they have to hide the fact that they are rich.
And they want to go and gain work experience abroad; life experience, too.
Big efforts have been made in recent years to increase the number of those who carry an organ donation card, with a good deal of success.
Loneliness is a recognized problem among the elderly  there are day centres and charities to help them, says Sam Challis, an information manager at the mental health charity Mind, but, when young people reach 21, theyre too old for youth services.
Amjid Gulzar, 26, said Abdullah could search for truth and reconciliation as well as encouraging foreign visitors.
Born Rolihlahla Dalibhunga in a small village in the Eastern Cape on 18 July, 1918, Mandela was given his English name, Nelson, by a teacher at his school.
Fish farming is absolutely viable in Africa, said Paul White, owner of the HydroFish fish farm in Ivory Coast, which produces 3,000 tonnes of fish each year.
She does, however,  nd it satisfying to return to a store she has previously mystery shopped and see standards have improved.
We also have terri c public transport, with the underground working 24 hours at weekends, and it only costs 1 per trip.
Cafe_ Rouge, Bella Italia and Belgo deduct 10%, as do Strada and Giraffe, which is owned by Tesco.
When they are  nished, the four plants at Ouarzazate will occupy a space as big as Moroccos capital city, Rabat, and generate 580 mega-watts (MW) of electricity, enough to power a million homes.
Youre advertising a problem that doesnt exist in a major way and youre deterring people from wanting to come to Perth and your beautiful countryside around it.
He has completed his series of books and most of his projects are off the ground.
Humans, said TV naturalist Sir David Attenborough in 2013, are a plague on earth, but WWF claims there is still time to stop the rot.
The move to bring BlackBerry to the iPhone is four or five years too late, says James Gooderson, an 18-year-old student who blogs on technology.
Argentina rejects the .patagonia request for a new generic top-level domain, the government notes in an appeal.
If you are part of the 1%, you still have problems and they are legitimate to you.
If you are getting info from the cloud and social networks, that will happen more easily.
Delacourt has become one of Frances best-loved authors; his previous novel, My List of Desires, was translated into 47 languages and is now being adapted into a  lm.
The worst transport problems were in Natal, where bus drivers have been on strike since 12 June.
Numbers who use e-cigarettes while continuing to smoke are going down, West said.
I asked how she did it: very slow breathing for several minutes prior to each dive, then a big, deep breath before diving in.
Whales are not usually located right next to ships and so would be subjected to noise of about 60 to 90 decibels  around the level of a lawnmower or a vacuum cleaner.
They have got tipping right in Italy, where people dont add a service charge but usually round up their bill so, if they get a meal for 19, they leave a 20 note and dont ask for change.
In trials, the second rat responded correctly to the imported brain signals 70% of the time by pressing the lever.
We allow this to happen online so why not of ine?
But ... well, it does feel nice, standing here.
A lot of my job is listening to peoples lives all day, every day and it started to feel so overwhelming to go on social media and see every single detail of everybodys life, including people that I dont really have a relationship with, she said.
Im always given a scenario, such as buying something from a speci c department or a new product range, but, within that framework, I can often buy whatever I want  and keep it.
They can use those fish to feed themselves and to sell in the market so that they get money to buy other staple items.
In 2006, three Mexicans made international headlines when they were discovered drifting, also in a small fibreglass boat near the Marshall Islands.
I can average around 60 in tips per shift but, on a good night, this goes up to over 100 and, on a poor night, its around 40.
Earlier in 2013, Allen was watching the news and saw a woman being given the British Empire Medal.
Now, I hope, men and women who want to start a family but havent met the right person yet will have another option, says Limal.
The extent of the bene ts have yet to be determined but researchers from Stirling University have launched a comparative study to look for quantitative evidence of the physical, cognitive and emotional bene ts of the daily mile.
The institutes  gures also suggest that 17% of employers in the private sector made use of zero- hours contracts, considerably lower than the 34% of organizations in the voluntary sector and 24% in the public sector.
As soon as the children at one primary school in Stirling hear the words daily mile, they down their pencils and head out of the classroom to start running laps around the school  eld.
Wildlife authorities captured a tiger in Chitwan after it killed two people, including a villager who was pulled from his bed in May.
Were not producing a new generation of this kind of act.
Its hard to sleep if youre one of the 15 million American shift workers who work irregular hours.
The first three repetitions will feel easy but the last two will feel impossibly hard.
One major problem is maintaining radio contact with a drone and planning for what happens if that contact breaks.
The Swiss Federal Office of Justice said of the latest arrests: They are being held in custody pending their extradition.
The actor Mark Rylance has called it his favourite book in the world and most of the surviving First Folios will be on display  including those belonging to the British and Bodleian libraries, and a tattered copy recently discovered in France.
Each year, 1.3bn tonnes of food, about a third of all that is produced, is wasted, including about 45% of all fruit and vegetables, 35% of  sh and seafood, 30% of cereals, 20% of dairy products and 20% of meat.
One part of the brain, for example, reliably responds to the word top, along with other words that describe clothing.
And, each single word lights up many different brain spots.
I think, after youve been married a while, you dont keep many secrets.
A rice-growing co-op in Sierra Leone asked us if we could do this on our property so that they can feed their workers and we have had interest from Nigeria and Central America, said Sheehy.
Teixeira, the former son-in-law of the longstanding FIFA president Joo Havelange, was charged alongside Del Nero and his predecessor, Jos Maria Marin, who was charged in May.
The team from the US, Japan, Germany and the UK asked zookeepers, carers and others who worked with male and female apes of various ages to complete questionnaires on the animals.
Apart from these three animals, there are only two other northern white rhinos in the world, both in zoos, both female.
To succeed as a race engineer, you need ... to be able to deal with pressure.
Many more had applied for a night of stargazing at the observatory but numbers are strictly limited.
It shows the power of Star Wars that, although they were disappointing, the prequels still managed to make a lot of money, said Rosser.
Webb and the Colombian former executive committee member Luis Bedoya were among those whose guilty pleas were entered in the US.
But are the countrys prisons a soft option?
If you are part of the 1%, you still have problems and they are legitimate to you.
In restaurants, because a lot of customers add tips through card payments, the staff never actually see how much is getting tipped  so we dont know whether were getting our fair share or not.
grins Ingrid Sparbo, disbelievingly, lifting her face to the light and closing her eyes.
There is a tendency among some local authorities and organizations to treat e-cigarettes as cigarettes and ban them in public places and outdoors, he said.
Macbeth will open in Singapore, Romeo and Juliet in Brussels.
Our clients want to measure how well their stores are delivering on that experience.
The project is a key plank in Moroccos ambitions to use its untapped deserts to become a global solar superpower.
So, with no big acts to headline, there are no big shows.
But now Brazil is once again in crisis, with a constant rise in prices, so people are finally reacting.
It was during a  nal-year project for his product design degree at the University of Limerick that Redmond produced the Express Dive.
So he tried crowdfunding on a US website, Indiegogo, which had recently opened up in the UK.
She has now exploded into the public consciousness with an album and a huge hit single, Show das Poderosas, which topped the charts and attracted 52 million YouTube views.
Twelve years after he first dreamed of his Solspeil, a German company specializing in so-called CSP  concentrated solar power  helicoptered in the three 17-sq-m glass mirrors that now stand high above the market square in Rjukan.
And, yes, he says he  nds the start of his working day much easier now than he did when he was younger. 
From all across Rwanda, and even parts of neighbouring Burundi, people  ock to the southern town of Butare to a little shop called Inzozi Nziza (Sweet Dreams).
The work I can create, as mayor, is temporary.
Among those also charged on Thursday were Rafael Salguero, a Guatemalan who left the executive committee in May; the former South American Confederation Secretary General, Eduardo Deluca; Perus former football federation president, Manuel Burga; and Bolivias football president, Carlos Chaves, already jailed in his own country.
It was the highest rescue yet performed on Everest and highlights the exponential rise in helicopter flights in recent years.
The most significant is Facebook Home, software that can be downloaded onto certain Android phones to feed news and photos from friends  and advertising  directly to the owners locked home screen. 
The anniversary of the death of the man from Stratford, the most famous and the most performed playwright in the world, will be marked across Britain and the globe.
Ever since it introduced $2 items on its dollar menu, it has gained a reputation for being more expensive than its rivals, while many consumers complain that service is slower.
I think it is really relaxing to do something analogue, to unplug, said Basford.
Such gaps could ultimately decide who became a top-level athlete because, as the paper says, selection into elite sports may often depend on very small margins or differences in an individuals physical performance.
In terms of his love life, Axani said he was not looking for his next Elizabeth Gallagher just yet.
On average, they did not enjoy the experience.
It has even filtered into the world of classical music, with one of the worlds leading pianists surprising concert-goers in June 2013 when he stormed off stage because a fan was filming his performance on a smartphone.
In June, a local Islamic group issued a dress code for foreign tourists.
According to the study, those born in the 1990s are making 4% fewer car trips and travelling 18% fewer miles per year, on average, than members of previous generations did at the same stage in their lives.
The trip has not been problem free.
They work with the police, the probation service and other, voluntary organizations to help those who feel trapped and frightened in the violent criminal gangs that operate across London.
While some employees welcome the  exibility of such contracts, for many, zero-hours contracts leave them insecure and unsure of when work will come, he said.
Patagonia is a relevant region for the countrys economy because it has oil, fishing, mining and agriculture resources.
Only four out of McDonalds 14,000 US restaurants had so far tested build your own burger, he said, raising questions about how it could be scaled up.
The managers should have ways to pay for broken glasses and plates without docking our tips.
A little later, the football club secretary arrived with envelopes to pay the officials for their time  the match fee at level 5 is 95 so it is safe to assume these men do not do it for the cash.
We are all in favour of anything that makes the referees job better and makes them more effective on the field of play, says Riley.
Search Google Images and one of the first hits is a picture of a large, naked man wearing them in the shower.
Its something uniting people here, Kalisa Migendo, a 24-year-old agriculture student, says.
Now, I hope, men and women who want to start a family but havent met the right person yet will have another option, says Limal.
SeaWorlds shares, which were worth $39 in 2013, were changing hands for just under $18 in August 2015. 
For those aged 12 to 15, phone calls account for just 3% of time spent communicating through any device.
We know our country needs to change in the way it is governed and we know our country needs to change in who it is governed for.
The two-year study captured the sounds made by 12 different types of vessel, including cruise ships, container ships and military vehicles, that passed through the strait about 20 times a day.
Maybe GPS signals are blocked or partially blocked, in which case its going to have an incorrect idea about where it is.
The first night after I was arrested was the biggest wake-up call of my life, he says.
All around the subway, bacteria associated with cheeses  brie, cheddar, parmesan and the mozzarella of ubiquitous New York pizza  turned up.
Another, outside Royal Mansion, declined to say if anyone was home, while a member of staff at another mansion simply warned the Guardian about the guard dogs.
Theres certainly a lot of wealth here but almost all of that wealth is in second homes only used in the summer, says Cantwell, the son of a  sherman father and a house-cleaner mother.
Have you ever used pink slime in your burgers?
Or see and speak to a floating video image of a friend.
For the more upmarket snoozer, luxury hotels are offering sleep retreats; more than $1,000 gets you dinner and a movie about sleep.
I make around 20 a shift but would only be given 10-15 of that money.
Some ships are quieter than others but the average intensity of noise next to all the ships was 173 underwater decibels, equivalent to 111 decibels through the air  about the sound of a loud rock concert.
The truth is the government doesnt pay much attention to the islands of the north Aegean, she said, so I would take all the kids from our school to the gates of parliament, to tell them: There is still life in these islands. 
When the mirror is warmed up, it releases heat at a speci c wavelength of infrared light that passes easily through the atmosphere and out into space.
The total was 121 billion minutes in December 2012, but that fell to 115 billion minutes in February, according to comScore.
The scientists only scanned  ve men and two women, however.
Robin Dunbar, Professor of Evolutionary Psychology at Oxford University, was dubious about the findings.
Almost 60 years after Ray Kroc opened his  rst restaurant in Des Plaines, Illinois, consumers are losing their appetite for a Big Mac and fries.
The first team would land on the surface of Mars in 2023 to begin constructing the colony, with a team of four astronauts every two years after that.
While some employees welcome the  exibility of such contracts, for many, zero-hours contracts leave them insecure and unsure of when work will come, he said.
Solar energy will make up a third of Moroccos renewable energy supply by 2020, with wind and hydro taking the same share each.
Children that get a high-quality  rst experience, which develops their physical literacy, are those that will have greater agility, balance and coordination, and are more likely to develop an enjoyment of physical activity and excel in sport as they grow up, he said.
Theres less water for agriculture and less water for all the new lodges that are getting built.
It is an important moment in the life of our nation but, I suppose, above all, it is a wonderful moment for a warm and loving couple who have got a brand new baby boy.
Her income is typically 30,000 to 40,000 a year and that doesnt include all the freebies she gets on the job.
Another factory owner, who declined to be named, said that once a factory closed its doors, even for a few months, it would lose orders and close permanently: There is no such thing as temporary closure, he said.
In Brazilian cities, white workers earn roughly twice as much as those of African descent.
Following tradition, a formal notice was posted on an ornate rococo-style easel  the same used to announce Prince Williams birth in 1982  in the forecourt of Buckingham Palace shortly before 9pm.
Im always given a scenario, such as buying something from a speci c department or a new product range, but, within that framework, I can often buy whatever I want  and keep it.
Never being able to trust your friendships with people of different means, I think that is dif cult, said Cockrell.
To the researchers surprise, 12 of 18 men gave themselves up to four electric shocks, as did six of 24 women.
We allow this to happen online so why not of ine?
The Scottish government is also supportive.
The only rules were they had to stay seated and not fall asleep.
Such gaps could ultimately decide who became a top-level athlete because, as the paper says, selection into elite sports may often depend on very small margins or differences in an individuals physical performance.
Guillaume Chapron from Swedens University of Agricultural Sciences and researchers across Europe found wolves, in some cases, living in suburban areas alongside up to 3,050 people per square kilometre  higher than the population density of Cambridge or Newcastle.
May God bless them all with love, health and happiness.
Some danced, some posed for photos, some drank, but mostly they just walked and talked football, waiting for the next game to begin on the nearby FanFest big screen.
I dont even know how much it costs; I dont know even know if Im going to buy it.
I decided to do this because I often go on YouTube and, while I am honoured that people are doing it, some are doing it wrong because they dont realize the intensity you need to work at, says Tabata.
If we want to find the answer as to whats going on with the midlife crisis, we should look at what is similar in middle-aged humans, chimps and orangutans, he said. 
The second test involved a lost wallet containing 5.
If we have to pay a tax of 23%, Im sorry to say it but we will all die on the island, says Kakali.
In theory, you could imagine that a combination of brains could provide solutions that individual brains cannot achieve by themselves.
We are all in favour of anything that makes the referees job better and makes them more effective on the field of play, says Riley.
From 2007, when just 13 rhinos were killed by poachers in South Africa, the killings have grown horri cally.
There are famous and very wealthy people but then you have hard-working and poor people struggling to get by.
From 28 February 2013, at 20.00 hours, he told a gathering of cardinals in the Vatican, the see of Rome, the see of Saint Peter, will be vacant and a conclave to elect the new supreme pontiff will have to be convoked by those whose competence it is.
In the beginning, when there started to be explosions, I used to have nightmares, she reflected.
What he has done for this club and for the game in general will never be forgotten.
This guy had to be darker than any modern European, but we dont know how dark, the scientist said.
In 2008, the Pentagon published a report called Human Performance which examined the possibility of a future in which soldiers could perform at their peak with only a couple of hours sleep.
Even though classmates post about parties and events on Facebook, they make sure to send him a text message, too, he said.
If he does not mate successfully soon with one of two female northern white rhinos at Ol Pejeta Conservancy in Kenya, there will be no more of their kind, male or female, born anywhere.
The campaign to save the beach was launched hours after the Tarifa council voted for the project.
A century ago, Venice  one of the most beautiful and low-lying cities in the world  used to  ood around ten times a year.
In February, 80 people, including schoolchildren, reportedly died near the ruling Baath Party headquarters in Mazraa.
You never see a reconstruction of a Mesolithic hunter-gatherer with dark skin and blue eye colour, Lalueza-Fox said.
One thing I really liked about Facebook was that I could sit for hours and click on a friend and then click on one of their friends and one of their friends and one of their friends and literally end up on someones Facebook page from the other side of the world, she said.
They said they would never have been involved in such a program.
Chon, founder of a faith-based NGO, began building a pool in which to farm fish.
A subsistence farmer, he grew vegetables and bought rice.
There is a tendency among some local authorities and organizations to treat e-cigarettes as cigarettes and ban them in public places and outdoors, he said.
Back in 2005, when BlackBerry brought instant messaging to the mobile phone, the company was just entering its boom times.
Ethiopia is one of the worlds poorest countries, well known for its precarious food security situation.
There are far greater numbers of southern white rhinos and black rhinos.
Other countries, such as China and Korea, which are also considering real-world emissions tests, will be watching what happens next closely.
Argentina has lodged an expression of its unhappiness that the US outdoor clothing retailer, Patagonia, is claiming a domain name that has been known far longer as a region of spectacular beauty that also has its own parliament.
German-speaking cities dominate the rankings in the 18th Mercer Quality of Life study, with Vienna joined by Zurich, Munich, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt in the top seven.
The Spanish team started their work after a group of cavers stumbled upon two skeletons in a deep and complex cave system high up in the Cantabrian Mountains of northwest Spain in 2006.
She recently deleted her Twitter account and deactivated her Facebook account two years ago after realizing she didnt like everyone knowing what I was doing.
East Africa can expect to experience increased short rains, while west Africa should expect heavier monsoons.
Two young mothers wheel their children into the square and stand in the sun.
Many of the 1.5 million who visit Northumberland each year are now aware of its Dark Sky status.
Karabo Ngidi, a lawyer with the centre, said Whats going to happen must be in the best interests of the children.
But he would also cite the earlier blues guitarists Blind Lemon Jefferson and Lonnie Johnson and the jazz players Charlie Christian and Django Reinhardt.
Among 6- to 7-year-olds, who have grown up with YouTube, Spotify music streaming and online television, the average DQ score was 98, higher than for those aged between 45 and 49, who scored an average of 96.
Retailer Sports Direct recently became the focus of controversy on zero-hours when it emerged that the company employs around 20,000 of its 23,000 staff on the contracts.
His condition isnt good, but hes getting better, said Ola Fjeldstad, a Norwegian anthropology student doing research on the isolated Ebon Atoll, part of the Marshall Islands archipelago.
The news was announced to the country by the current president, Jacob Zuma, who, in a sombre televised address, said Mandela had departed around 8.50pm local time and was at peace.
Its hard to say how much I earned a shift; maybe around 40, 20 from card tips.
Theres less water for agriculture and less water for all the new lodges that are getting built.
A lot of farmed fish is inbred, which does cause problems, but we are using a process with local fish sourced in Liberia, not fish from another region, said Sheehy.
They are taken care of so the whole situation is not going to repeat at the new house they are in, says Boer. 
On some sites, there was an option to click, saying: Id like kids someday, but you would read the persons profile and think: You will never have time!
In China, the top 10% now take home nearly 60% of the income.
By 14, she was on the radar of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who put her forward for the International Childrens Peace Prize, and, by 15, she became the youngest Nobel Peace Prize nominee in history.
His son, Andrew, had his sunglasses stolen almost as soon as he sat on the beach.
The former paratrooper has parachuted off buildings and mountains and once into a 600 foot deep cave.
At the Island Bay Marine Education Centre in Wellington, an octopus was found to be in the habit of visiting another tank overnight to steal crabs, then returning to its own.
Youve got to remember that this community was founded as a farming and  shing community of people who lived off the land and the water  a real working-class community.
He claims that he hasnt seen any effect at this point.
You could put it on top of shopping malls.
In Stirling alone, 30 schools have already started or are to start the daily mile.
The of cial title of the expedition is the Mua Voyage and it is a partnership between the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Oceania Regional Of ce and  ve Paci c Island countries: Samoa, Tonga, New Zealand, the Cook Islands and Fiji.
But whats monstrous is the way crossbreed dogs have been bred and marketed since the labradoodles inventor, Wally Conron, fi rst created the breed in the 1980s.
What this means in practice is that names containing letters that do not officially exist in Icelands 32-letter alphabet, such as c, are out.
This is a sensitive topic in this largely mixed-raced nation.
Some Americans have taken to keeping their wealth secret.
Were going to PC World first thing  their sale starts at 8am. 
Its very uplifting in a way because its a solution that will make people less ill, and happier and better at what they do.
Brazil said its views were endorsed last month by other members of the Amazon Cooperation Treaty (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Suriname and Venezuela).
The best technology in the world will be used here, Fernandez insisted.
And they want to go and gain work experience abroad; life experience, too.
But the increase in numbers of organs harvested is still not enough.
After six weeks of testing, the group following Tabatas plan  exercising for just 88 minutes a week  had increased their anaerobic capacity by 28% and their VO2 max, a key indicator of cardiovascular health and maximal aerobic power, by 15%.
The industry accepts individuals with a very wide range of academic quali cations and skills.
What is more, there were no dates in his calendar of events he personally had to attend.
And, yes, he says he  nds the start of his working day much easier now than he did when he was younger. 
The researchers found much higher levels of cadmium, a toxic metal, in conventional crops.
Data collected by Ofcom (the independent regulator and competition authority for the UK communications industries) suggests that, between November 2012 and January 2013 in the UK, 280 million music tracks were digitally pirated, along with 52 million TV shows, 29 million films, 18 million ebooks and 7 million software or games files.
The modern prison service in Sweden is very different from when I joined as a young prison officer in 1978, says Kenneth Gustafsson, governor of Kumla Prison, Swedens most secure jail, situated 130 miles west of Stockholm.
Our clients want to measure how well their stores are delivering on that experience.
This is, potentially, a huge physical advantage, said Sandercock.
After six weeks of testing, the group following Tabatas plan  exercising for just 88 minutes a week  had increased their anaerobic capacity by 28% and their VO2 max, a key indicator of cardiovascular health and maximal aerobic power, by 15%.
We did it the usual way, lifting the arms, legs and skull first, and proceeding gradually towards the torso  so it was only when we finally saw the twisted spine that I thought: My word, I think weve got him.
While he will become a United director and ambassador, the club will now have to find someone to replace a man who has won 13 English Premier League titles, two Champions Leagues, the Cup Winners Cup, five FA Cups and four League Cups.
Thats 65 litres of clean, drinkable water that were infusing with soap and washing down the drain each and every day  sometimes more than once.
Im a romantic at heart.
Macbeth will open in Singapore, Romeo and Juliet in Brussels.
The data and analytics available to you are extraordinary.
Since then, the only security threat has been petty theft and overexcited fans.
The group Chief Executive, Howard Schultz, has said in a statement: Starbucks has always paid taxes in the UK despite recent suggestions to the contrary.
The atlas shows how words and related terms exercise the same regions of the brain.
Even though classmates post about parties and events on Facebook, they make sure to send him a text message, too, he said.
This is, above all, an idea born of common sense and experience, he told the Guardian.
Marketforce shoppers typically get a couple of pounds for a visit as a token gesture for their time and effort, says Boydell.
The polygraph is widely used in the US in criminal and other cases and for security clearance for the FBI and CIA but is much less popular in Europe.
But, like many fans, they said they loved the atmosphere, if not the logistics, of this tournament which has got off to a spectacular start on the pitch.
But Bartho Boer, a spokesman for the Mayor, denies that the plans are illiberal.
For the older teenagers, it might be more sensible to start the school day at 11am or even later.
In a statement, Google said: Google cares deeply about the security of our users data.
Solar energy will make up a third of Moroccos renewable energy supply by 2020, with wind and hydro taking the same share each.
One of the boyfriends wrote to me and said, Listen, dude, shes not mad but Cynthia found out."
This gift that we are born with  to reach out and hear things hundreds of metres away, all these incredible sounds  is in danger of being lost through a generational amnesia, he said.
You could use this on buildings so you have to spend much less on air conditioning or maybe you wouldnt need it at all.
Marketforce shoppers typically get a couple of pounds for a visit as a token gesture for their time and effort, says Boydell.
Elsewhere, there has been a glut of goals: 28 in the  rst eight games  almost three times as many as at the same stage in South Africa in 2010.
Apple is good at mainstreaming products but its not that good.
But it doesnt mean theyre gonna win. 
This is, potentially, a huge physical advantage, said Sandercock.
Amin, 61, from rural Bangladesh, has seen his livelihood gradually decline, due to his own and his wifes illnesses, the cost of his sons marriage, the death of his father and loss of goods such as  shing nets.
On the brains right-hand side, near the top of the head, is one of the brain spots activated by family terms: wife, husband, children, parents.
Each day, they typically spend up to eight hours visiting  ve to ten stores, plus another hour or two  ling detailed reports on every aspect of their visit.
Not the Argentinian and FC Barcelona record-breaking striker Lionel Messi, but Junior Messi Enguene, a 20-year-old midfielder from Cameroon.
In London, they are also creating a 37-screen pop-up cinema, one screen to showcase each of Shakespeares plays, along the South Bank.
A more open and connected world is a better world.
He keeps his BlackBerry for messaging, uses an iPhone over wi-fi to play games and makes phone calls on an HTC-branded Android phone.
"There are riches here, riches that are badly needed by local inhabitants, said Vicente Fernandez Guerrero, secretary-general of Innovation, Industry and Energy for Andalucia.
As a woman, its made me happy, Vronique Soulier, president of the clubs supporters association, told journalists.
It is not as if you can argue to the politicians that wolves are a big tourist attraction.
5 Facebook makes news, breaks news and decides what is news Roughly 71% of 18- to 24-year-olds say the internet is their main news source and 63% of users overall, according to the Pew Research Center.
In 2014, 1,215 rhinos were slaughtered for their horns in South Africa.
This is a very, very bad idea indeed, he told me.
The yes campaign scored four big successes, winning 53% of the vote in Scotlands largest city, Glasgow, 57% in Dundee and 51% in North Lanarkshire.
What the job involves: A race engineer acts as the interpreter between the race-car mechanics and the driver, says race engineer Jamie Muir.
The most important thing is that the children really enjoy it; otherwise, you couldnt sustain it.
Since the 2008  nancial crisis, the income gap has expanded and the situation has gotten worse for the wealthy, Cockrell said.
His article comes after music industry leaders met British Prime Minister David Cameron in Downing Street, where the issue of web piracy was discussed.
VisitBritains director, Patricia Yates, said: The links between tourism, films and TV are potent ones.
But Stratford is where he bought land and property, where he kept his library, where he lived and read and thought.
Worst thing about the job: Expect to be away from home at least six months of the year.
And, in many ways, it is not our misperceptions but these realities across different countries that are the most interesting and important aspects of the study.
The fish farm gives these people with HIV a way of getting back into society  now they are bartering and trading with people in the market every week.
British people think the top 1% wealthiest households own 59% of their countrys wealth, when they actually only own 23%.
Although it allows you to stay underwater for longer, you have to plan your whole day around it.
We are symbiotic: the town is here because of the mine, says Deputy Mayor Niklas Siren.
Elle, 22, Edinburgh: We never know whether its fair Average tips: 20 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... France  I work three jobs, all on part-time zero-hours contracts, in catering and hospitality.
It will take a few more months for India, which now has 1,300 big cats in several huge protected areas, to finalize the data, he added.
She cited the attack in June on a hospital in Quetta, capital of Baluchistan, and killings of female teachers in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
China is the biggest coal importer, and Indonesia the biggest exporter, having temporarily overtaken Australia.
We didnt see it coming but, suddenly, the donations just started.
For his part, Carlos Davila, who works for the Spanish Ornithological Society in Donana, was also alarmed at the proposal.
Weve only been tracking vaping for just over a year, so its a short time period, but we are not seeing growth in the number of long-term ex-smokers or never smokers using e-cigarettes.
Firstly, when on Mars their bodies will have to adapt to surface gravity that is 38% of that on Earth.
Millions of barrels of oil are used in the manufacture of plastic bottles and the transportation of mineral water across the planet produces even more carbon emissions.
Delacourt has become one of Frances best-loved authors; his previous novel, My List of Desires, was translated into 47 languages and is now being adapted into a  lm.
The worst transport problems were in Natal, where bus drivers have been on strike since 12 June.
The trip has not been problem free.
The Scottish government is also supportive.
Thats just his personality.
Its really unfair that tips go towards breakages made by customers.
Since then, the only security threat has been petty theft and overexcited fans.
But, in my experience, the majority of prisoners want to change, and we must do what we can to help to facilitate that.
They are popular in much of Europe, too.
At St Ninians, teachers take their pupils out of lessons on to a specially built circuit around the schools playing  eld for their daily mile whenever it best suits that days timetable.
The musicians are Hutu and Tutsi women, some survivors of the 1994 genocide, during which almost a million Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed.
He added: Our study showed that the false memory and the genuine memory are based on very similar, almost identical, brain mechanisms.
A later start to the day for many, says Kelley, is something that would bene t everyone, particularly families.
In the Philippines, older people have benefited from the educational reforms introduced after independence in 1946, which made elementary and high school education compulsory.
Speaking at the same meeting, Derrick Taff, a social scientist at Pennsylvania State University, described preliminary experiments which suggest that listening to recordings from national parks, of waterfalls, birdsong and wind, helped people recover from stressful events.
Youre advertising a problem that doesnt exist in a major way and youre deterring people from wanting to come to Perth and your beautiful countryside around it.
Youve got to remember that this community was founded as a farming and  shing community of people who lived off the land and the water  a real working-class community.
Schools should teach navigation and map reading as life skills, he wrote.
Almost 60 years after Ray Kroc opened his  rst restaurant in Des Plaines, Illinois, consumers are losing their appetite for a Big Mac and fries.
Ten days later, on 5 September, when further excavation proved Morris had hit the crucial spot, he returned with Lin Foxhall, head of the archaeology department, to excavate the body.
Have you ever used pink slime in your burgers?
FemAle has already been approached by other breweries asking if they can brew new beers with them.
Steck, he says, was planning to climb Everests west ridge, first done in 1963, descend to the South Col and then immediately climb Lhotse via a new route, all without fixed ropes.
Lovemore, 74, from Zimbabwe, has become one of the poorest people in his village.
Its that you need to know that this shopper has these characteristics and, in the past, that when those characteristics are present, this is what a person tends to do.
Zurich in Switzerland is named by Mercer as having the worlds second highest quality of life but the Viennese say their city is far more fun.
The musicians are Hutu and Tutsi women, some survivors of the 1994 genocide, during which almost a million Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed.
It would be more accurate to call them scum houses than scum villages, says Boer, because we dont want to put more than one of these families in the same area.
They do not need the IPCC to tell them that the weather is changing, said Saleemul Huq, director of the International Centre for Climate Change and Development, based in Dhaka.
Apple, and the record industry, cannot afford to get rid of the download market just yet  so streaming and downloading will have to coexist under the Apple brand, one representing the future as the other gets progressively slower and sicker.
Apple, and the record industry, cannot afford to get rid of the download market just yet  so streaming and downloading will have to coexist under the Apple brand, one representing the future as the other gets progressively slower and sicker.
For Danae Ringelmann, co-founder of Indiegogo, the gravity light is a perfect example of how meritocratic crowdfunding can be and how it can test an entrepreneurs idea.
They are more popular than nicotine patches and may or may not be more effective.
Leahy and Sensenbrenner say yes; Feinstein says no.
If you have a vehicle that can go into a neighbourhood, it can deliver from that base.
Other theories will no doubt swirl around the Vatican in the days and weeks ahead, just as they did following the death of Pope John Paul I in 1978, 33 days after his election.
Describing the average sleep loss per night for different age groups, he says: Between 14 and 24, its more than two hours.
International activity is up 41% since December.
It has just over 3,000 beds for visitors, compared with tens of thousands on an island such as Rhodes.
The positive side of this is peoples performance, mood and health will improve.
Lets Dance moulded Bowie into a crowd-friendly global rock star, with the album and its singles Lets Dance, China Girl and Modern Love all becoming huge international hits.
It wasnt easy and it certainly wasnt immediate.
The project has now grown into the Grow2Feed Liberia Fish Farm, with 12 tanks, which, when fully stocked, will each have 5,000 fish  providing up to 200,000 fish per year, serving a community of 1,200 predominantly HIV-positive people, including King and his family.
The Mesolithic man, who lived in Spain around 7,000 years ago, had an unusual mix of blue eyes, black or brown hair and dark skin, according to analyses of his genetic make-up.
From 2007, when just 13 rhinos were killed by poachers in South Africa, the killings have grown horri cally.
Race engineer A race engineer liaises between the driver and the mechanics.
Another protest march, near Rios Maracana Stadium, was met with a similarly heavy police response.
Whether that ambition is achieved remains to be seen but exporting solar energy could have stabilizing effects within and between countries, according to the Moroccan solar energy agency (Masen).
A further criticism is that the differences seen may result from different climates, soil types and crop varieties, and not from organic farming, though the researchers argue that combining many studies should average out these other differences.
Junior Smart knows a lot about gangs.
The gap in physical prowess between children in the same class but born in different months was sometimes very wide.
Cathy Olkin, a mission scientist, said: Charon just blew our socks off when we had the new image today.
Rob Yarrell, national manager of the National Aquarium of New Zealand in Napier, said: Octopuses are famous escape artists.
You wont be surprised by an ex in the street with a new girlfriend or boyfriend: you already know theyre dating someone else from the romantic sel es.
Job satisfaction: Lewis fi nds the variety of tasks exciting.
If I just showed you a shot of someones body you could probably tell me what gender they are.
Retailer Sports Direct recently became the focus of controversy on zero-hours when it emerged that the company employs around 20,000 of its 23,000 staff on the contracts.
What we did was to look at a set of current London taxi drivers and a set of London taxi drivers that had been retired for about four years, said neuroscientist Dr Hugo Spiers, head of the Spatial Cognition Group at University College London, who is an author of the study.
Allen, a former volunteer with the Red Cross, has been leading classes in the north-east seaside town for 45 years.
Brazil said its views were endorsed last month by other members of the Amazon Cooperation Treaty (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Suriname and Venezuela).
The image also shows a dramatic canyon estimated to be 7 to 9km deep.
The growing of coca leaves is legal and licensed 12 in Bolivia.
She has now exploded into the public consciousness with an album and a huge hit single, Show das Poderosas, which topped the charts and attracted 52 million YouTube views.
The owners and bartenders need to tell them to go have a smoke but be respectful to their communities.
We Can Do It is not a female beer but a beer brewed by women that anyone can drink, she says.
According to the IEAs Medium-Term Coal Market Report the world will burn 1.2bn more tonnes of coal per year by 2017 compared with today  the equivalent of the current coal consumption of Russia and the US combined.
Imagine the setup  a person is told to sit in a chair with wires attached to their skin and a button that will deliver a harmless but uncomfortable shock, and they are told to just sit there and entertain themselves with their thoughts, she said.
He spent two months in prison before being bailed for 50,000.
After doing work experience at Chelsea during her compatriot Jos Mourinhos first stint as manager of the club between 2004 and 2007, she was reportedly described as Mourinho in a skirt.
How does he feel watching football on TV when a referee gets vilified?
We as a society want to defend them.
The MEPs voted to put health warnings on 65% of each cigarette pack, as opposed to a proposed 75%.
Illegal downloading is a kind of moral squalor and theft, as much as reaching in to someones pocket and stealing their wallet is theft, says author Philip Pullman.
Professor Robin Dunbar is famous for his research that suggests a person can only have roughly 150 people as a social group.
Flying through time Time zones provide an artificial journey through time  but special relativity means that a flight involves actual time travel.
Pullman, writer of the His Dark Materials trilogy, says authors and musicians work in poverty and obscurity for years to bring their work to the level that gives delight to their audiences and, as soon as they achieve that, the possibility of making a living from it is taken away from them.
Theyre common in the Netherlands and Switzerland; German postal workers use them to get around and BMW offers one for about $3,000.
The best technology in the world will be used here, Fernandez insisted.
The number of 19-to-21-year-olds visiting McDonalds once a month has fallen by 13% since 2011, according to food analysts Technomic, while the number of 22-to-37-year- olds visiting has not grown.
Quali cations: A private-helicopter-pilot licence, a commercial pilots licence and around 2,000 hours of experience  ying at low levels in the type of helicopter the company usually uses.
Another possible escape route could have involved Inky squeezing into an open pipe at the top of his tank, which led under the floor to the drain.
Paralympian, Tanni Grey-Thompson, chair of ukactive, the UKs leading not-for-pro t health body for physical activity, said: All children need to achieve 60 active minutes every day, whether in a lesson, on the walk to school or in the playground.
In a statement, Prince Charles said: Both my wife and I are overjoyed at the arrival of my first grandchild.
I really rely on tips because I am only paid 7 an hour.
Want to know who gets the most sleep and the best quality of sleep in America?
The vital importance of clean water is becoming harder and harder to ignore, as California enters another summer of drought.
But, these days, the golden arches of McDonalds are looking a little tarnished.
Riley, as a young referee, went out and bought himself books on psychology and nutrition as there was no information on offer to him at all.
Quali cations: To dive offshore, you must have diving-inspection and medical-technician quali cations.
The owners and bartenders need to tell them to go have a smoke but be respectful to their communities.
Adults in the UK now eat an average of 75g of pizza every week compared with none in 1974, while the consumption of pasta has almost tripled over the same period.
He wanted to cross the Channel because he speaks fluent English but, with language classes, he says he is happy to settle in France.
Although it allows you to stay underwater for longer, you have to plan your whole day around it.
My goal is to pair up people who really want a family and a partner  and wholl stay together.
Batteries are getting smaller, theyre getting lighter, theyre getting more reliable and they are lasting longer, says Don DiCostanza, the founder and CEO of Pedego, an electric bikemaker and retailer.
Burma, Bangladesh and India can expect stronger cyclones; elsewhere in southern Asia, heavier summer rains are anticipated.
The actor Mark Rylance has called it his favourite book in the world and most of the surviving First Folios will be on display  including those belonging to the British and Bodleian libraries, and a tattered copy recently discovered in France.
Under the same conditions, a quarter of women pressed the shock button.
Ice cream is important, she says between mouthfuls of a honey- avoured offering.
Asked whether he felt more comfortable being Captain Wales than Prince Harry, his reply was one of the most revealing he has given about his relationship with Prince Charles.
Per person, that amounted to hearing roughly 25,000 words  and more than 3,000 different words  as they lay in the scanner.
Every village is digging a pit just beyond the houses for garbage.
Can false memories be artificially created?
A British woman, Lauren Pears, raised 100,000 to open a cat caf in London through the site.
Britons think it is 44%, when it is actually nearly half as much again  62% are either overweight or obese.
He recently lost his job as a car-park attendant due to ill health and had to take in his  ve grandchildren after the death of his daughters.
Antibiotics have become drugs that are expensive to develop, that are only used in short courses and that quickly become ineffective due to the evolution of bacterial resistance.
South American Indians have chewed coca 3 leaves for centuries.
I can average around 60 in tips per shift but, on a good night, this goes up to over 100 and, on a poor night, its around 40.
Reject pessimism, cynicism and know that progress is possible.
We know our country needs to change in the way it is governed and we know our country needs to change in who it is governed for.
Solar energy will make up a third of Moroccos renewable energy supply by 2020, with wind and hydro taking the same share each.
Its long days, but more manageable.
But at the real Downton Abbey, Highclere Castle  a stately home owned by George Geordie Herbert, 8th Earl of Carnarvon  the financial outlook has rarely been brighter.
Now its actually here, people love it. 
He also has the support of a sports psychologist, Liam Slack, for regular guidance and an exercise regime to help him handle the 11km he runs during a game.
The Seattle-based company has applied for its brand to be a top-level domain name (currently .com), but the South American governments argue this would prevent the use of this internet address for environmental protection, the promotion of indigenous rights and other public interest uses.
According to the IEA, demand from China and India will drive world coal use in the coming five years, with India likely to overtake the US as the worlds second biggest consumer.
We will continue to  ght with the facts because the facts are on our side, he said recently on a conference call with journalists and analysts.
The thought of children across the country running every day because of something weve done is phenomenal.
His article comes after music industry leaders met British Prime Minister David Cameron in Downing Street, where the issue of web piracy was discussed.
If they are not on a recognized list of 1,853 female and 1,712 male names, the parents must seek the approval of a body called the Icelandic Naming Committee.
Rodri, 37, London: Around 50% of a waiters income is tips Average tips: 60 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... the US  Everything has got fairer since the tipping scandal was exposed in the summer of 2015.
She said she was moved by the arrival of the message, although she had not known her grandfather because he died, at the age of 54, six years before she was born.
Its impossible to get water beyond 90C during flight  so choose coffee.
Tom, Manchester: A big night of tips can help pay the rent Average tips: 40 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... Italy  Where I used to work,  oor staff kept 80% of cash tips and 40% of card tips.
Speaking at the same meeting, Derrick Taff, a social scientist at Pennsylvania State University, described preliminary experiments which suggest that listening to recordings from national parks, of waterfalls, birdsong and wind, helped people recover from stressful events.
He said the message we need to save the planet slightly missed the point: The planet will get better; its us that wont be here because well destroy the environment.
In Britain, people think that an extraordinary 43% of young adults aged 25-34 still live at home with their parents, rather than the actual 14%.
In 2009, Italys central bank warned that the notes were widely used by mafia money launderers and terrorists.
The highestplaced British brands are HSBC (33rd), Shell (65th) and Burberry (73rd).
He added: Our study showed that the false memory and the genuine memory are based on very similar, almost identical, brain mechanisms.
We want everyone to be who he and she is  whether they are gay and lesbian or stand up to violence and are then victims of harassment.
Rodri, 37, London: Around 50% of a waiters income is tips Average tips: 60 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... the US  Everything has got fairer since the tipping scandal was exposed in the summer of 2015.
The way in which navigational technology is used could also affect its impact on our own abilities, says Spiers.
For people aged between 24 and about 30 or 35, its about an hour and a half.
Enter a department store and you will be watched.
Argentina has lodged an expression of its unhappiness that the US outdoor clothing retailer, Patagonia, is claiming a domain name that has been known far longer as a region of spectacular beauty that also has its own parliament.
You also need a strong sense of personal ethics and an understanding of the law.
A further criticism is that the differences seen may result from different climates, soil types and crop varieties, and not from organic farming, though the researchers argue that combining many studies should average out these other differences.
The number of minutes Americans spend on Facebook appears to be falling, too.
To add to the companys problems, McDonalds hamburgers were recently named the worst in America in a poll of more than 32,000 American  diners, who said they would rather eat a burger at Five Guys, Smashburger or Fuddruckers.
So after all these years, Goodfellow  nally  nds himself being talked about in the same breath as John Logie Baird (the television), Alan Turing (the Turing machine), Sir Frank Whittle (the jet engine) and Sir Tim Berners-Lee (the World Wide Web).
Carle, 26, set out, in 2013, to see if it was possible to live using only French-made products for ten months as part of a television documentary.
In Brazilian cities, white workers earn roughly twice as much as those of African descent.
An overwhelming majority of 91% post a photo of themselves, 71% post the city or town where they live, up from 61%, more than half give email addresses and a  fth give their phone number.
China is the biggest coal importer, and Indonesia the biggest exporter, having temporarily overtaken Australia.
A single brain spot is associated with a number of related words.
Schools should teach navigation and map reading as life skills, he wrote.
Decreasing speed by six knots could decrease noise intensity by half.
The gap in physical prowess between children in the same class but born in different months was sometimes very wide.
Race engineer A race engineer liaises between the driver and the mechanics.
The managers should have ways to pay for broken glasses and plates without docking our tips.
And 39% are connected to people they have never met in person.
She previously coached Benficas male youth teams, the Qatar womens team, which she led to its first international victory in 2012, and, more recently, the Iranian womens national side, which she left in September 2013.
Retailers are becoming increasingly aware that shoppers who are prepared to set foot in a physical store want a service and an experience they cant get online, says Simon Boydell, spokesman for Marketforce, which has more than 300,000 mystery shoppers on its books.
This is not a beer that is aimed at women  its our hoppiest brew, says Thomas Bingebo, the head brewer at Ocean.
The general public and many academics have consistently underestimated the importance of Stratford to Shakespeare.
Early on Saturday morning, he reached the summit of Nuptse, the first and lowest of the three main summits in the Everest horseshoe that surrounds the glaciated valley called the Western Cwm.
For example, it would make life difficult, if not impossible, in much of the tropics and would guarantee the eventual melting of the Greenland ice sheet and some of the Antarctic ice sheet, with sea levels rising by many metres as a result.
In Nepal, kings used to stand on tiger skins in front of stuffed tigers for special occasions.
The positive side of this is peoples performance, mood and health will improve.
Whether that ambition is achieved remains to be seen but exporting solar energy could have stabilizing effects within and between countries, according to the Moroccan solar energy agency (Masen).
The site has come at an opportune time for the country of five million people.
Even worse, victims were piled too high in my stories  almost 83 dead in a fi re at 6pm turned out to be as few as 38 by 7pm; 12 people injured in a coach crash soon became two and so it went on.
If the amount of food wasted around the world were reduced by just 25%, there would be enough food to feed all the people who are malnourished, according to the UN.
She listened quietly as Ban Ki-moon, the UN secretary-general, described her as our hero, our champion; and as the former British prime minister and now UN education envoy, Gordon Brown, uttered what he called the words the Taliban never wanted her to hear: happy 16th birthday, Malala.
After the disaster, Spain woke up to the fact that it possessed a place of real ecological importance and did a lot to clean it up and protect it, he added.
Ultimately, McKinlay believes, its essential that humans remain able to take control of their navigation.
Smoker Neil Timms owns an English pub and met the smoking ban before, in England.
In Chelyabinsk itself, schools and universities were closed and many other staff told to go home early.
Faced with the impossibility of following the local movements of the sun, the 100 or so Muslims in Inuvik, a small town that sits 125 miles north of the Arctic Circle, have also been following Edmontons timetable.
Fridays historic victory for Paulo Muoka Nzili, 85, Wambugu Wa Nyingi, 84, and Jane Muthoni Mara, 73, was the result of a three-year battle through the courts.
A girl born today in the UK can expect to live nearly to the age of 82 on average, while her brother will live to 78.
The IPCC makes the case that climate change is real and happening much more strongly than before.
We as a society want to defend them.
Forcing people outside the bar to smoke is going to exacerbate the tension thats already there.
For the album Black Tie White Noise (1993), he sprinkled elements of soul, electronica and hip hop into the mix.
Fresh potatoes are also becoming less essential with a 67% decrease from 1974, when adults ate the equivalent of 188g every day.
Riley, as a young referee, went out and bought himself books on psychology and nutrition as there was no information on offer to him at all.
He has promised to settle down and enjoy his post-jump years with his girlfriend, Nicole Oetl, flying helicopters on rescue missions in the US and Austria. 
How does he feel watching football on TV when a referee gets vilified?
And, they have been surprised that many bars are not set up with big screens for the games.
It has been the greatest experience of my working life being alongside Alex and a great honour to be able to call him a friend.
Noma has been named the worlds best restaurant by Restaurant magazine for three years running.
Its that you need to know that this shopper has these characteristics and, in the past, that when those characteristics are present, this is what a person tends to do.
Only drivers with an official security clearance can use special fast lanes to avoid the wait.
Part of this is simply that air travel is inherently dangerous and, thus, standards are much higher.
Apart from these three animals, there are only two other northern white rhinos in the world, both in zoos, both female.
All around the subway, bacteria associated with cheeses  brie, cheddar, parmesan and the mozzarella of ubiquitous New York pizza  turned up.
If I fast Yellowknife or Edmonton times, my son might say, Papa, you are really insane.
Quali cations: A university degree, typically in automotive/mechanical engineering or motorsport technology.
The way in which navigational technology is used could also affect its impact on our own abilities, says Spiers.
The institutes  gures also suggest that 17% of employers in the private sector made use of zero- hours contracts, considerably lower than the 34% of organizations in the voluntary sector and 24% in the public sector.
He added that the new method was particularly helpful in re-examining cases where the cause of death was unclear.
The report from psychologists at Virginia and Harvard Universities is one of a surprising few to tackle the question of why most of us  nd it so hard to do nothing.
It is not as if you can argue to the politicians that wolves are a big tourist attraction.
As the pollster notes: Trump says what theyre thinking and, the more outrageous he is, the more they agree with him.
Already in the pipeline are plans for a new shark exhibition in Orlando and an attraction in San Antonio that will allow customers to swim with dolphins in a naturalistic setting.
CEO Craig Anderson says: We want to help reduce traffic, help reduce our carbon footprint and promote a healthy lifestyle.
And, yes, he says he  nds the start of his working day much easier now than he did when he was younger. 
Greater Manchester Police said at least two people had been arrested at Black Friday sales events already that morning.
That way, the mice learned to associate fear of the electric shock with the memory of the first chamber.
Figures show smoking levels in England are at their lowest since records began  19.5 per cent  but we are determined to further reduce rates of smoking and believe this important step will help.
The report from psychologists at Virginia and Harvard Universities is one of a surprising few to tackle the question of why most of us  nd it so hard to do nothing.
But, in that fi rst journalism job, getting the numbers wrong didnt always add up to failure.
Elle, 22, Edinburgh: We never know whether its fair Average tips: 20 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... France  I work three jobs, all on part-time zero-hours contracts, in catering and hospitality.
Browning said: This research backs up what people think about organic food.
The Stanford mirror was designed in such a way that it re ects 97% of the visible light that falls on it.
On the streets of Athens, the breeding ground of shisha, there is rising fear that austerity not only doesnt work  it kills. 
We are conditioning ourselves to ignore the information coming into our ears.
This is a sensitive topic in this largely mixed-raced nation.
Almost 6,000 people have so far signed Unites online petition.
True to Inzozi Nzizas motto, the shop can certainly make dreams come true.
Decreasing speed by six knots could decrease noise intensity by half.
The worst case is Saudi Arabia, where people think only 28% are, when 71% are.
Ive asked Cool to look forward and imagine what top climbers might be doing 60 years from now.
One strong reason for the drop in prison numbers might be the amount of post-prison support available in Sweden.
It aims to double exports to America in 2014 and will soon start producing teff-based pizzas, bread and cookies.
What is it like to look at the very last of something?
When elements 114 and 116 were assigned formal names in 2012, scientists chose flerovium and livermorium respectively, after the Flerov Lab at Dubnas Joint Institute of Research and the Lawrence Livermore Lab in the US, where the elements were discovered.
In 2014, Bowie was given the Brit Award for Best British Male, making him the oldest British recipient in the awards history.
In 1996, the symbol Cp was proposed for copernicium, or element 112, but it was swapped to Cn when scientists complained that Cp referred to another substance.
Jrlaug works OK, as do Obba, Sigurflj, rana and  should you choose  Vagna.
The two-year study captured the sounds made by 12 different types of vessel, including cruise ships, container ships and military vehicles, that passed through the strait about 20 times a day.
Its a much more complex, multifaceted environment, says Benedict Evans, a digital media specialist at Enders.
One weekend they concocted the recipe and the next they brewed 1,600 litres.
Faehrmann said the protests had shown Australians wanted sharks protected: Whats amazing is so many people in Australia love sharks.
Rainbows are produced when sunlight hits raindrops.
Data collected by Ofcom (the independent regulator and competition authority for the UK communications industries) suggests that, between November 2012 and January 2013 in the UK, 280 million music tracks were digitally pirated, along with 52 million TV shows, 29 million films, 18 million ebooks and 7 million software or games files.
This gift that we are born with  to reach out and hear things hundreds of metres away, all these incredible sounds  is in danger of being lost through a generational amnesia, he said.
In fact, he earned just 10 from the patent and has not made a penny more from it since.
McDonalds has a bigger menu than some, with more complicated items  its chicken McWrap takes 60 seconds to make.
The Environment Minister, Jan Szyszko, makes no secret of being a hunter.
I wonder what it would be like if I didnt spend these seconds here and spent them doing something else.
Each word is represented by more than one spot because words tend to have several meanings.
At St Ninians, teachers take their pupils out of lessons on to a specially built circuit around the schools playing  eld for their daily mile whenever it best suits that days timetable.
Theres less water for agriculture and less water for all the new lodges that are getting built.
Lucy Smith, Glastonburys green issues organizer, said: We have amazing water quality in the UK but everyone is obsessed with drinking bottled water.
The foods most commonly found in British bins are bread, vegetables, fruit and milk.
The most significant is Facebook Home, software that can be downloaded onto certain Android phones to feed news and photos from friends  and advertising  directly to the owners locked home screen. 
The same region responds to killed, convicted, murdered and confessed.
Theyve been left out of all of this for the last 18 years.
The results of the research are based on an analysis of 343 peer-reviewed studies from around the world  more than ever before  which examine differences between organic and conventional fruit, vegetables and cereals.
In other countries, there have long been much higher levels of support and acceptance of the bene ts of organic food and farming.
More than 25,000 kilos of dead  sh were collected in the aftermath and nearly 2,000 adult birds, chicks, eggs and nests were killed or destroyed.
Think of that next time you pour it into your tea.
And, each single word lights up many different brain spots.
About a year and a half ago, he said in 1969, all of a sudden, kids started coming up to me saying, Youre the greatest blues guitarist in the world.
About 22% of Japanese work more than 49 hours a week, compared with 16% of US workers and 11% in France and Germany, according to data compiled by the Japanese government.
Theres no way I could have banned smoking in my bar without it being a rule throughout the whole city, says Douville.
Most in Iqaluit adhere to the timetable followed by Muslims in Ottawa, some 1,300 miles south of the city  following the advice of Muslim scholars who have said Muslims in the far north should observe Ramadan using the timetable of Mecca or the nearest Muslim city.
Memory researchers have always recognized that memory does not, as is often assumed, work like a video camera, faithfully recording all of the details of anything we experience.
I wont touch those jobs anymore.
Another protest march, near Rios Maracana Stadium, was met with a similarly heavy police response.
Quali cations: You dont necessarily need a degree in computer science.
I make around 20 a shift but would only be given 10-15 of that money.
Steve Deace, a prominent Iowa conservative, said that Trumps antics are both a good and a bad thing.
We want to make a few photos available to put with the bottle and give it a face, so visitors can see the young man who threw the bottle into the water, she said. 
I decided to do this because I often go on YouTube and, while I am honoured that people are doing it, some are doing it wrong because they dont realize the intensity you need to work at, says Tabata.
Robert Mys_ajek stops dead.
But the same people who painted such sensitive portraits of Ice Age rhinos helped to kill them off.
In this way, they named the city people lived in 57% of the time, and were nearly 90% accurate in placing people within 50 miles of their home.
One waiter, who doesnt work for PizzaExpress but has worked for 11 years for another restaurant chain, said that at least a third of his income is from tips.
The announcement was made jointly by Carney and the artist Tracey Emin, who grew up in the town.
The Spanish team went on to compare the genome of the hunter-gatherer to those of modern Europeans from different regions to see how they might be related.
It has been the greatest experience of my working life being alongside Alex and a great honour to be able to call him a friend.
Memory researchers have always recognized that memory does not, as is often assumed, work like a video camera, faithfully recording all of the details of anything we experience.
His billing, The Beale Street Blues Boy, was shortened to Blues Boy King and thence to BB.
The site levies a 4% fee for successful campaigns.
Vienna is the worlds best city to live in, Baghdad is the worst and London, Paris and New York do not even make it into the top 35, according to international research into quality of life.
His son, Andrew, had his sunglasses stolen almost as soon as he sat on the beach.
Were not producing a new generation of this kind of act.
For Danae Ringelmann, co-founder of Indiegogo, the gravity light is a perfect example of how meritocratic crowdfunding can be and how it can test an entrepreneurs idea.
That way, the mice learned to associate fear of the electric shock with the memory of the first chamber.
The drainpipe was 50 metres long and opened onto the waters of Hawkes Bay, on the east coast of New Zealands North Island.
The yes campaign scored four big successes, winning 53% of the vote in Scotlands largest city, Glasgow, 57% in Dundee and 51% in North Lanarkshire.
I try to engage a young person who has been earning 300 a week through illegal methods.
Kelley says that synchronized hours could have many positive consequences.
Automation Driverless cars have been in the headlines ever since Google began road testing the vehicles back in 2012 but no-one really knows when driverless cars will become commonplace.
Inzozi Nziza was opened by the theatre director Odile Gakire Katese.
But, the rest of us live here year round.
Youll be able to post photos and videos from your line of vision on Facebook or send them as an email.
When the Russian capsule opened on to the cool air of Kazakhstan, Kelly said, he smelled a fragrance like a plant was blooming in that area.
Britons think it is 44%, when it is actually nearly half as much again  62% are either overweight or obese.
Coldplay is probably the last one to come up and that was ten years ago.
Quali cations: You dont necessarily need a degree in computer science.
So, just like our mouse, it is quite possible we can associate what we happen to have in our mind with bad or good high-variance ongoing events.
More difficult still could be navigating the legal permissions to copy and store software before it dies.
Some populations of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians have suffered even bigger losses, with freshwater species declining by 76% over the same period.
ElectroBike, which operates 30 stores in Mexico, opened its first American store in Venice Beach, California in the autumn of 2014 and hopes to grow to 25 US stores in a year.
Tom Sanders, a professor of nutrition at Kings College London, said the research did show some differences.
And, they have been surprised that many bars are not set up with big screens for the games.
We had a big meeting with the Accord to make them understand they have to come forward or how will we help our workers?
Until now, the differences between commercial, governmental and other types of identity were easily distinguished in every internet address by .com, .gov and 20 other categories.
Mama Fresh is a family firm that has been selling injera to top restaurants and hotels in the Ethiopian capital for years.
My goal is to pair up people who really want a family and a partner  and wholl stay together.
It doesnt necessarily mean we see them the same way.
The retailers use of the contracts was followed by details of a string of other companies using the deals, including cinema chain Cineworld and Buckingham Palace, which uses them for its 350 summer workers.
Some danced, some posed for photos, some drank, but mostly they just walked and talked football, waiting for the next game to begin on the nearby FanFest big screen.
One terrible injury, a stab through the right buttock and into his pelvis, was certainly after death and could not have happened when his lower body was protected by armour.
When the mirror is warmed up, it releases heat at a speci c wavelength of infrared light that passes easily through the atmosphere and out into space.
In Brazilian cities, white workers earn roughly twice as much as those of African descent.
Cafe_ Rouge, Bella Italia and Belgo deduct 10%, as do Strada and Giraffe, which is owned by Tesco.
If you had to build a visitor attraction from scratch, what could be better than the universe? 
The same region responds to killed, convicted, murdered and confessed.
The only rules were they had to stay seated and not fall asleep.
It shows the power of Star Wars that, although they were disappointing, the prequels still managed to make a lot of money, said Rosser.
Jenny Holdcroft, policy director for IndustriALL, which has been closely involved in the Accord, said that the agreement ensured that factories would not lose orders during closure because brands had committed to maintain orders with suppliers for two years.
I manage one minute and 12 seconds.
I thought she might send me  owers as it was a declaration of love for her, but she didnt understand, Delacourt said.
said Consuelo Melis, who works behind the bar in a local cafe.
Ive looked at buying and seen mortgage advisers but I just cant borrow enough to get on the property ladder.
The chance to click on international news websites, communicate with friends and family overseas and use sites like Facebook and Twitter has created a massive buzz.
Species that cause diarrhoea and nausea, both benign and bad E.coli (mostly benign), and the bacteria that can cause skin infections and urinary-tract infections were common all over the city.
The northern white rhino is the rarest species of African rhino.
I wonder what it would be like if I didnt spend these seconds here and spent them doing something else.
4 Facebook has been the tool to organize revolutions Though the Arab Spring was dubbed the Twitter revolution, organizing demonstrations and direct action has been revolutionized by Facebook.
In 1995, two mothers were awarded damages after their sons, born in 1989, were accidentally switched at the Johannesburg hospital where they were born.
For a man famous in his own lifetime, there is little documentary evidence for Shakespeares life and times.
Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, said the referendum was a vote from the Scottish people for change.
And, we are not producing a new generation of these kind of acts  the likes of the Rolling Stones, Muse, even the Arctic Monkeys  that can headline.
Stratford remained hugely important throughout Shakespeares life, argues Paul Edmondson, the head of learning and research at the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
Carles conclusion: Its not entirely possible or even desirable to live 100% made in France, particularly in terms of new technology.
About a year and a half ago, he said in 1969, all of a sudden, kids started coming up to me saying, Youre the greatest blues guitarist in the world.
Nearly 80% of young smartphone owners regularly use a social networking application, says the research firm Enders Analysis, but two-thirds use more than one.
We are greater than the sum of our individual ambitions, and we remain more than a collection of red states and blue states.
Members of the Muslim Council of Wales and the South Wales Jewish Representative Council have expressed reservations, while the Archbishop of Wales, Barry Morgan, said that donation ought to be a gift of love, of generosity.
Inside one, water drips through a huge crystal chandelier onto a thick carpet rotting under sections of collapsed ceiling.
But now Brazil is once again in crisis, with a constant rise in prices, so people are finally reacting.
There are famous and very wealthy people but then you have hard-working and poor people struggling to get by.
A few weeks earlier, Riley, Dunn and another former referee, Peter Jones, made their way to another level-5 match to monitor another referee tipped to progress  John Brooks.
Since the 2008  nancial crisis, the income gap has expanded and the situation has gotten worse for the wealthy, Cockrell said.
While he will become a United director and ambassador, the club will now have to find someone to replace a man who has won 13 English Premier League titles, two Champions Leagues, the Cup Winners Cup, five FA Cups and four League Cups.
Sometimes life just isnt fair.
For three-and-a-half years, all pupils at St Ninians Primary have walked or run a mile each day.
He cautioned that the false memories created in the mice in the experiments were far simpler than the complex false memories that have generated controversy within psychology and psychiatry  for example, false memories of childhood sexual abuse, or even memories for bizarre ritualized satanic abuse, abduction by aliens, or past lives.
One thing I really liked about Facebook was that I could sit for hours and click on a friend and then click on one of their friends and one of their friends and one of their friends and literally end up on someones Facebook page from the other side of the world, she said.
But, on Tuesday 8th April, 2014, she described the extraordinary moment when she received a message in a bottle, 101 years after he had lobbed it into the Baltic Sea.
Its not pleasant, Kirkland Gable told the Guardian in 2010, but Im not in control of the universe.
Youre advertising a problem that doesnt exist in a major way and youre deterring people from wanting to come to Perth and your beautiful countryside around it.
A walk-in wardrobe was a must for 28%, almost a quarter (24%) opted for a property behind electric gates, and 22% had a games room, with 7% installing a snooker table.
If youre Gods chosen one, how do you choose not be chosen?
Among 6- to 7-year-olds, who have grown up with YouTube, Spotify music streaming and online television, the average DQ score was 98, higher than for those aged between 45 and 49, who scored an average of 96.
You need a 15-minute distance and typical off-the-shelf drones have about that distance.
Communication between riders and drivers, between different vehicles and between cars and infrastructure is bringing transportation into a new era, according to Allan Clelland, an expert on transportation technology.
The head of Swedens prison and probation service, Nils Oberg, announced in November 2013 that four Swedish prisons are to be closed due to an out of the ordinary decline in prisoner numbers.
Vicki Littman, chairperson of the East Hampton Food Pantry, which provided more than 31,000 food parcels in 2015, says the number of people seeking out the food pantry is ever increasing.
So many of the people I work with dont have the means to have a balanced protein diet and fish is such a clean source of protein  it doesnt cause health problems like other sources, and it is something we can farm.
There was a big explosion and then a series of little explosions.
If they put it in the centre of Tarifa, where there is space, then clients could visit shops, tapas bars and restaurants.
Oxfam said the worlds poorest could be lifted out of poverty several times over if the richest 100 billionaires would give away the money they made in 2012.
We allow this to happen online so why not of ine?
For example, it would make life difficult, if not impossible, in much of the tropics and would guarantee the eventual melting of the Greenland ice sheet and some of the Antarctic ice sheet, with sea levels rising by many metres as a result.
Reiss Jenkinson, exhibits keeper at the National Aquarium, said he was absolutely certain Inky had not been taken.
But Soulier was hopeful: Hopefully, with the new manager, the club can find the motivation theyre lacking at the moment, she said.
She has a series of adventures as Johansson until she is eventually found out and, in the end, dies in a car crash.
People lacking qualifications who want to use MOOCs as a bridge to higher education?
There is a young guy asking me for advice because he wants to break my record.
In the most senior roles, female directors received bonuses of 36,270 over the past 12 months, compared with 63,700 awarded to male directors.
The industry accepts individuals with a very wide range of academic quali cations and skills.
Elle, 22, Edinburgh: We never know whether its fair Average tips: 20 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... France  I work three jobs, all on part-time zero-hours contracts, in catering and hospitality.
For his part, Carlos Davila, who works for the Spanish Ornithological Society in Donana, was also alarmed at the proposal.
At least, it doesnt if youre breath-holding on land.
Consumption of takeaway food has almost doubled since 1974, from 80g per person per week to 150g.
Its four years later: you can understand she doesnt want to give up her baby.
What we did was to look at a set of current London taxi drivers and a set of London taxi drivers that had been retired for about four years, said neuroscientist Dr Hugo Spiers, head of the Spatial Cognition Group at University College London, who is an author of the study.
And, then, there is the isolation  being in the 1%, it turns out, can be lonely.
Paralympian, Tanni Grey-Thompson, chair of ukactive, the UKs leading not-for-pro t health body for physical activity, said: All children need to achieve 60 active minutes every day, whether in a lesson, on the walk to school or in the playground.
Oxfam said world leaders should learn from countries such as Brazil, which has grown rapidly while reducing inequality.
Its four years later: you can understand she doesnt want to give up her baby.
Companies are working to develop technology that will enable a vehicle to tell traf c control systems not only that it is present but also where it is going and how fast it is travelling.
PizzaExpress joins restaurant chains Ask and Zizzi in siphoning off 8% of the tips paid by card but other chains deduct even more.
We know sitting still kills; not sitting still helps children build skills that will stay with them for life.
By percentage, the most wasted food is lettuce and leafy salads, of which consumers throw away 38% (64,000 tonnes) of all they buy.
On average, they did not enjoy the experience.
It doesnt necessarily mean we see them the same way.
We also have terri c public transport, with the underground working 24 hours at weekends, and it only costs 1 per trip.
Maria van der Hoeven, Executive Director of the IEA, said: Coals share of the global energy mix continues to grow each year and, if no changes are made to current policies, coal will catch oil within a decade.
Easily accessible from smartphones and tablets, subscription services are popular with people looking to try out new music without committing to buying a download or a CD.
There has been a drop in deaths among under-fives of nearly 60%, from 16.4 million in 1970 to 6.8 million in 2010.
Hannah, a 41-year-old City lawyer, has conducted nearly 500 visits for the Mystery Dining Company in her spare time without receiving remuneration or travel expenses.
Its strategy, published in 2013, argues that the grain could play an important role in school meals and emergency aid programmes, and help reduce malnutrition  particularly among children and adolescents.
FemAle has already been approached by other breweries asking if they can brew new beers with them.
Many of the extremely wealthy  the 1% of the 1%  feel that their problems are really not problems.
His billing, The Beale Street Blues Boy, was shortened to Blues Boy King and thence to BB.
Pullman, writer of the His Dark Materials trilogy, says authors and musicians work in poverty and obscurity for years to bring their work to the level that gives delight to their audiences and, as soon as they achieve that, the possibility of making a living from it is taken away from them.
Each month, Sullivans members choose from a list of seven possible gifts (chocolate, tea sets, manicures).
Steve Deace, a prominent Iowa conservative, said that Trumps antics are both a good and a bad thing.
While some employees welcome the  exibility of such contracts, for many, zero-hours contracts leave them insecure and unsure of when work will come, he said.
I understand the nature of octopus behaviour very well, he said.
There are now an estimated 1,500 wolves in Poland.
The results revealed that a childs month of birth could make signi cant differences to their levels of cardiovascular  tness, muscle strength and ability to accelerate, all of which predict how good someone is at sport, in which such attributes are vital.
What about false memories for more than just contexts  false memories for objects, food or other mice?
But what we are finding is that the mistakes are being made by the models which predict less warming, not those that predict more.
You also need a strong sense of personal ethics and an understanding of the law.
This is, above all, an idea born of common sense and experience, he told the Guardian.
Then, its plutonium power source will run out and it will shut down, drifting outwards towards the edge of the solar system and deep space beyond.
Professor Robin Dunbar is famous for his research that suggests a person can only have roughly 150 people as a social group.
Its inventors, Bob Gable and his brother Kirkland, were later horrifi ed that the tag had become a form of control and punishment.
In 2006, the Irish designer completed a scuba-diving course and loved the feeling of being able to breathe underwater and observe  sh in their natural environment.
The impasse meant the family, from Kpavogur, risked missing their holiday in France until they applied to the British embassy for an emergency UK passport, which should now allow them to leave.
We asked waiters around the UK what they think of the tipping process (including how much they take home from tips and whether its fair) and what would improve it for them.
Our clients want to measure how well their stores are delivering on that experience.
A third wrote: I wish her welcome and success but I think itll be hard for her to make her mark as a woman in such a macho business.
But the same people who painted such sensitive portraits of Ice Age rhinos helped to kill them off.
Here, at the central African countrys  rst ice- cream parlour, customers can buy scoops in sweet cream, passion fruit, strawberry and pineapple  avours.
In 1995, two mothers were awarded damages after their sons, born in 1989, were accidentally switched at the Johannesburg hospital where they were born.
Lovemore, 74, from Zimbabwe, has become one of the poorest people in his village.
Riley, as a young referee, went out and bought himself books on psychology and nutrition as there was no information on offer to him at all.
Hearing a click off a salmon is probably one of the most challenging things a killer whale does.
Hannah, a 41-year-old City lawyer, has conducted nearly 500 visits for the Mystery Dining Company in her spare time without receiving remuneration or travel expenses.
I think people will think it is really cute.
The project is a key plank in Moroccos ambitions to use its untapped deserts to become a global solar superpower.
Smokers are the key group for e-cigarette  rms because seven out of ten vapers are smokers.
We are conditioning ourselves to ignore the information coming into our ears.
How does he feel watching football on TV when a referee gets vilified?
He said he hoped the research would provide a baseline of research for health of cials and geneticists, and could help health of cials to be better prepared to prevent and track diseases and pathogens. 
Money is not the only thing that de nes you, he said.
To see what driverless cars might look like in action, go to the video at: vimeo.com/37751380.
4 Facebook has been the tool to organize revolutions Though the Arab Spring was dubbed the Twitter revolution, organizing demonstrations and direct action has been revolutionized by Facebook.
But, for the small but growing Muslim community of Iqaluit, Nunavut, life in the land of the midnight sun poses a real challenge during the month of Ramadan, during which Muslims typically fast from sunrise to sunset.
BBM claims 80 million monthly users after its upgrade, but WhatsApp has 300 million.
All were tested between 2007 and 2010 on three different measures of  tness: stamina, handgrip strength and lower-body power.
Around the rainbow Theres no better place to see a rainbow than from a plane.
Lovemore, 74, from Zimbabwe, has become one of the poorest people in his village.
After they leave work, they sometimes find it difficult to make friends and adapt to school.
Argentina rejects the .patagonia request for a new generic top-level domain, the government notes in an appeal.
But Weiss believes the findings could point to a deeper understanding of the emotional crisis some men may experience.
The Cardews could get round Harriets problem by giving her an Icelandic middle name.
I can average around 60 in tips per shift but, on a good night, this goes up to over 100 and, on a poor night, its around 40.
We have this lovely idea about dolphins and have faith in them  who would think a dolphin would ever attack a person?
That same day, he climbed up to the summit of Everest itself, reaching the top in complete darkness early on Sunday.
Autism is a developmental disorder seen in more than one in 100 people.
Free to download and use, they use the internet to swap text messages, pictures, voice clips, stickers, and even videos in WhatsApps case, between most types of phones.
Maycon de Mattos Batista, a financial analyst who worked with Anitta while she was an intern, said there had been a huge change in Anittas image, but not of her colour.
The thought of children across the country running every day because of something weve done is phenomenal.
Apple is good at mainstreaming products but its not that good.
I manage one minute and 12 seconds.
Lima has black vultures or gallinazos.
Three cameras attached to Baumgartners suit recorded his free-fall of just over four minutes  which failed to break the existing free-fall record for duration  and then the parachute opening.
There were about 900 music festival events in the UK between May and September 2014, he said, and there is no way they can all continue.
Lauren Raskauskas, 22, Naples, Florida Raskauskas describes herself as a pretty private person.
The Environment Minister, Jan Szyszko, makes no secret of being a hunter.
Those born in October were almost as  t, scoring highest for strength and coming third for power, with December children close behind.
A more open and connected world is a better world.
Eventually he was arrested for serious drug-related offences and was sent to prison for 12 years.
SeaWorlds shares, which were worth $39 in 2013, were changing hands for just under $18 in August 2015. 
The two-year study captured the sounds made by 12 different types of vessel, including cruise ships, container ships and military vehicles, that passed through the strait about 20 times a day.
We may not yet be living in an age of  ying cars, as predicted in the 1985  lm Back to the Future II, but the rise of smartphones and other new technologies is creating a reality that is arguably as exciting and almost as far-fetched.
Housing is, by far, the biggest cost in the Hamptons.
But what we are finding is that the mistakes are being made by the models which predict less warming, not those that predict more.
Robert Mys_ajek stops dead.
Chinese inequality levels are now similar to those in South Africa, which is now the most unequal country on Earth and significantly more unequal than at the end of apartheid.
One day, Im cleaning up after a dead body; another day, Im in a prison cell or 100 feet in the air being lowered down into a silo to clean it.
You also need a strong sense of personal ethics and an understanding of the law.
The typical swimmer can hold their breath for about 40 seconds while underwater, he says.
The most important thing is that the children really enjoy it; otherwise, you couldnt sustain it.
What the job involves: A company will pay an ethical hacker to hack into its computer system to see how well it might stand up to a real attack.
It was a real adventure.
The device can take in enough air for two minutes of diving and takes approximately the same amount of time to be re lled.
The of cial title of the expedition is the Mua Voyage and it is a partnership between the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Oceania Regional Of ce and  ve Paci c Island countries: Samoa, Tonga, New Zealand, the Cook Islands and Fiji.
Wolves are  along with the brown bear, the lynx and the wolverine  Europes last large predator carnivores.
PizzaExpress joins restaurant chains Ask and Zizzi in siphoning off 8% of the tips paid by card but other chains deduct even more.
If I just showed you a shot of someones body you could probably tell me what gender they are.
The charity WaterAid is asking people to use recycled water from bathtubs or garden butts or to douse people with sea water.
Redmond says the mouthpiece feels similar to using a snorkel.
The rest of their viewing is shared between DVDs, streamed content through Net ix or iTunes and recorded television programmes.
An overwhelming majority of 91% post a photo of themselves, 71% post the city or town where they live, up from 61%, more than half give email addresses and a  fth give their phone number.
Freddie Mercury had to be our most powerful stage performer, the best live performer weve ever had.
He gets what all referees hope for every time they referee a match.
Food waste is happening in countries where people can afford to throw away food.
And, then, there is the isolation  being in the 1%, it turns out, can be lonely.
The northern white rhino is the rarest species of African rhino.
Many of the extremely wealthy  the 1% of the 1%  feel that their problems are really not problems.
Whales are not usually located right next to ships and so would be subjected to noise of about 60 to 90 decibels  around the level of a lawnmower or a vacuum cleaner.
We Can Do It is not a female beer but a beer brewed by women that anyone can drink, she says.
A century ago, Venice  one of the most beautiful and low-lying cities in the world  used to  ood around ten times a year.
To be able to dispose of the bombs safely, youll also need an explosive ordnance disposal quali cation and years of experience.
Per person, that amounted to hearing roughly 25,000 words  and more than 3,000 different words  as they lay in the scanner.
The mission hopes to inspire generations to believe that all things are possible, that anything can be achieved, much like the Apollo Moon landings.
It was during a  nal-year project for his product design degree at the University of Limerick that Redmond produced the Express Dive.
Professor Robin Dunbar is famous for his research that suggests a person can only have roughly 150 people as a social group.
Lost Loves Douville, though, feels the ban to be a great business opportunity.
We believe that its possible to export energy to Europe but,  rst, we would have to build the interconnectors which dont yet exist, said Maha el-Kadiri, a Masen spokeswoman.
Some Americans have taken to keeping their wealth secret.
The second is education, from early childhood to the start of work, to enable people to escape and stay out of poverty.
Never being able to trust your friendships with people of different means, I think that is dif cult, said Cockrell.
Martha Wood lives beside a loud bar that hosts live music.
During the day, from late September to mid-March, the town, three hours north-west of Oslo, is not completely dark, but its certainly not bright, either.
Ive asked Cool to look forward and imagine what top climbers might be doing 60 years from now.
Valter Piscedda, the centre- left mayor of Elmas, a small town near Sardinias capital, Cagliari, wants to pay residents to leave.
First we noticed the wind, and then the room was filled with a very bright light and we could see a cloud of some unspecified smoke in the sky, she said.
The Stanford mirror was designed in such a way that it re ects 97% of the visible light that falls on it.
