For many people, a blank sheet of paper is very daunting; with a colouring book you just need to bring the colour.
The yes campaign had four big successes  it won 53% of the vote in Scotlands largest city, Glasgow, 57% in Dundee and 51% in North Lanarkshire.
South American Indians have chewed coca 3 leaves for hundreds of years.
If it works in the rest of Europe, theres absolutely no reason why it cant work in the UK, he said.
He once explained that his guitar technique was partly the result of his lack of skill: I started to bend notes because I could never play in the bottleneck style.
That is a big, big problem for us.
Other breweries have already asked FemAle if they can brew new beers with them.
At St Ninians, teachers take their pupils out of lessons to the schools playing  eld for their daily mile at a time that suits that days timetable.
Nobody knows which came first: the economic crisis in Greece or shisha, the drug that is called the cocaine of the poor.
28% bought a walk-in wardrobe, almost a quarter (24%) bought a property behind electric gates, and 22% had a games room, with 7% installing a snooker table.
The right of indigenous people in South 6 Americas Andean region to chew coca leaf was removed in 1964 when Bolivia was under a dictatorship and it signed the convention.
Valter Piscedda, the mayor of Elmas, a small town near Sardinias capital, Cagliari, wants to pay residents to leave.
Im a romantic.
Elle, 22, Edinburgh: We never know whether its fair Average tips: 20 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... France  I have three part-time jobs.
The victory for Paulo Muoka Nzili, 85, Wambugu Wa Nyingi, 84, and Jane Muthoni Mara, 73, was the result of a three-year battle in the courts.
Guillaume Chapron from Swedens University of Agricultural Sciences and researchers across Europe found wolves living in suburban areas with up to 3,050 people per square kilometre.
In 1995, two mothers were paid damages after their sons, born in 1989, were switched by mistake at the Johannesburg hospital where they were born.
Politician Chuka Umunna said, While some employees welcome the  exibility of zero-hours contracts, for many, zero-hours contracts leave them insecure and unsure of when work will come, he said.
The site charges a 4% fee for successful campaigns.
The US was the preferred destination for 27%, followed by the Caribbean (9%).
Most noise is at that low frequency but there is more background noise in the high frequencies, too.
They found that it was not his baby and not her baby.
Mys_ajek says only the need to save forests and control the wild animal population can save Europes wild carnivores, especially the unpopular wolf.
There are already plans for a new shark exhibition in Orlando and an attraction in San Antonio that will allow customers to swim with dolphins.
The website ATMInventor.com says: Who invented the idea of an ATM?
He has completed his series of books and most of his projects.
The positive side is that peoples performance, mood and health will improve.
It is a majestic rectangle of strong bone, a head of pure strength.
When Im drumming, it gives me power because were still alive and survivors, she says.
They said they would never be involved in a program like that.
Patagonia is an important region for the countrys economy because it has oil, fishing, mining and agriculture resources.
It allows you to stay underwater for longer but it takes a lot of planning.
He says that he hasnt seen any effect at this point.
complained in a blogpost that a scallop dish he ordered at the Prince Hotel in Tokyo contained a similar, but cheaper, type of shellfish.
But whats monstrous is the way people sell crossbreed dogs since the labradoodles inventor, Wally Conron, fi rst created the dog in the 1980s.
If  nding peace and quiet becomes too dif cult, many children will grow up without the experience and I think its a very big problem, he said.
She said closing tax havens, which hold as much as $31 trillion, or as much as a third of all global wealth, could collect $189bn in additional taxes.
Does the Pope know more about his state of health than the Vatican has so far made public?
The move to bring BlackBerry to the iPhone is four or five years too late, says James Gooderson, a technology blogger.
We make a soup or curry, but we dont use beef, we use reindeer.
I really need tips because I am only paid 7 an hour.
The project is now a fish farm with 12 tanks, each with 5,000 fish  and will give up to 200,000 fish per year to a community of 1,200 mainly HIV-positive people, including King and his family.
Adults in the UK now eat an average of 75g of pizza every week compared with none in 1974.
They trained the rats to press a lever when they saw a light above it.
The people of Kiruna have waited for ten years, says Viktoria Walldin, a social anthropologist who works with the architects.
The bacteria of Swiss cheese were found in midtown Manhattan and the  nancial district, and the bacteria used to make kimchi and sauerkraut showed up in the  nancial district and Bay Ridge.
Someone asked Have you ever used pink slime in your burgers?
This is a sensitive topic in this mixed-raced country.
The Mesolithic man, who lived in Spain about 7,000 years ago, had an unusual mix of blue eyes, black or brown hair and dark skin.
For the older teenagers, it might be better to start the school day at 11am or even later.
They collected more than 25,000 kilos of dead  sh afterwards and nearly 2,000 adult birds, chicks, eggs and nests were killed or destroyed.
This learned deafness is a real problem, Fristrup told the American Association for the Advancement of Science meeting in San Jose.
The worst transport problems were in Natal, where bus drivers were on strike.
It is a beer brewed by women that anyone can drink, she says.
He was very openminded, and he believed in freedom and that everyone should respect each other, she said.
Housing is the biggest cost in the Hamptons.
In Elmas, the scheme has got mixed reactions.
The number of minutes Americans spend on Facebook is falling, too.
Every village is digging a pit for garbage.
But now Brazil once again has problems, with a constant rise in prices, so people are finally reacting.
For all adults, this rises to 20% and, for young adults, it is 9%.
Nearly 80% of young smartphone owners regularly use a social networking application but two-thirds use more than one.
South American Indians have chewed coca 3 leaves for hundreds of years.
So many people come here to swim with her and they dont understand how dangerous it can be.
Michael Thali, the Director of Zurichs Institute for Forensic Medicine in Europe, and one of the inventors of Virtopsy, said it could completely change criminal investigations.
So, just like our mouse, it is quite possible we can associate what we have in our mind with bad or good events.
The trouble is that Spain does not have the public resources it had 16 years ago.
Paralympian, Tanni Grey-Thompson, chair of ukactive, a health organization for physical activity, said: All children need to achieve 60 active minutes every day  this can be in a lesson, on the walk to school or in the playground.
It is highly possible that people from different backgrounds and cultures will have different brain atlases.
According to the IUCN, in 2013, less than three per cent of the worlds oceans was in marine protected areas and less than one per cent of that is no take (no  shing).
Going out with friends was a problem  no American films, no Belgian beer, no sushi or pizza.
In 2015, SOHAY helped 1,540 children to leave dangerous work and helped 2,125 more children  those who would soon start work  to go to school.
But it doesnt mean theyre going to win.
Ice cream is important, she says between mouthfuls of honey- avoured ice cream.
So he tried crowdfunding on a US website, Indiegogo, which has recently opened up in the UK.
The main aim of the 11,000km trip was to deliver a special message to the World Parks Congress.
He added that memory researchers have always known that memory does not work like a video camera, recording all the details of anything we experience.
They are scum houses not scum villages, says Boer, because we dont want to put more than one of these families in the same area.
Restaurant chains Ask and Zizzi also deduct 8% of the tips paid by card.
This may mean that online study is unattractive or difficult for someone without high-level qualifications, but it suggests that MOOCs could be a really good tool for continuing education, he added.
We have heard the voice of Scotland and, now, we must hear the millions of voices of England, he said.
He then said that, If a one-way mission to Mars ever became possible, I would always volunteer.
When they are not using their phones, 12- to 15-year-olds have a very different relationship with other media, too.
It is the same with yoga  yoga is for everybody.
And we are not producing new bands that can headline  like the Rolling Stones, Muse, even the Arctic Monkeys.
Communication between riders and drivers, between different vehicles and between cars and infrastructure is bringing transportation into a new era.
From 28 February 2013, at 20.00 hours, he told a gathering of cardinals in the Vatican, the see of Rome, the see of Saint Peter, will be vacant and there will be an election for a new Pope.
There were a lot of girls in shock, she said.
The news was told to the country by the current president, Jacob Zuma, who said Mandela died around 8.50pm local time and was at peace.
If we reduced the amount of food we wasted around the world by just 25%, there would be enough food to feed all the hungry people in the world.
After the disaster, Spain realized that it had a place of real ecological importance and did a lot to clean it up and protect it, he added.
Retailers are becoming increasingly aware that shoppers who visit a physical store want a service and an experience they cant get online, says Simon Boydell, spokesman for Marketforce, which has more than 300,000 mystery shoppers.
For three-and-a-half years, all the pupils at St Ninians Primary School have walked or run a mile each day.
Just after I got into the water, Dusty left the woman she was with and went crazy  I found out afterwards that shes very territorial when she is with somebody.
So my book had better be good.
The activity in Western Australia is adding to the human tragedy of shark attacks.
Mama Fresh is a family company that sells injera to top restaurants and hotels in the Ethiopian capital.
The researchers also found much higher levels of cadmium, a toxic metal, in regular crops.
The device can take in enough air for two minutes of diving and takes approximately the same amount of time to re ll.
Other companies using the contracts include cinema chain Cineworld and Buckingham Palace, which uses the contracts for its 350 summer workers.
For people aged between 24 and about 30 or 35, they lose about an hour and a half.
Many more people apply for a night of stargazing at the observatory but not everyone can come because numbers are strictly limited.
Vallone says, I want to work but theres no work.
Early on Saturday morning, he reached the summit of Nuptse, the first of the three main summits in the Everest horseshoe.
Another protest march, near Rios Maracana Stadium, also had a heavy police response.
Doctors are delighted at the scheme.
They will use the best technology in the world here, Fernandez said.
We want to find a few photos to put with the bottle and give it a face, so visitors can see the young man who threw the bottle into the water, she said.
The increase will put more pressure on agricultural land, water, forests, fisheries and resources, and also food and energy supplies.
Chon began building a pool in which to farm fish.
Shower less, put down the soap and let those lovely little bacteria  ourish.
The foods most often found in British bins are bread, vegetables, fruit and milk.
He warned that the false memories created in the mice in the experiments were far simpler than the complex false memories people have, such as false memories of childhood sexual abuse, abduction by aliens, or past lives.
If we want to keep it, we need to make sure that people can still see the digital objects we create today in the future, he added.
In the centre of town, a shopkeeper complained sadly that his baby daughter cries at the sound of explosions.
We know our country needs to change.
The fall of the Berlin Wall helped make Vienna a centre for companies who want to do business in Central Europe.
Illegal downloading is morally wrong, and it is theft, the same as putting your hand in someones pocket and stealing their wallet is theft, says author Philip Pullman.
To see what driverless cars might look like on the road, go to the video at: vimeo.com/37751380.
Valter Piscedda, the mayor of Elmas, a small town near Sardinias capital, Cagliari, wants to pay residents to leave.
Never being able to trust your friendships with other people, I think that is dif cult, said Cockrell.
The swimming pool is filled with dirty water and has flowers growing through its tiles.
South American Indians have chewed coca 3 leaves for hundreds of years.
In 6- to 7-year-olds, who have grown up with YouTube, Spotify music streaming and online television, the average DQ score was 98.
The number of people who use e-cigarettes while continuing to smoke is going down, West said.
This beer is not aimed at women, says Thomas Bingebo, the head brewer at Ocean.
The actor Mark Rylance has called the First Folio his favourite book in the world and most of the surviving First Folios will be on display  including those that belong to the British and Bodleian libraries, and a copy recently discovered in France.
There are famous and very wealthy people but also hard-working and poor people.
A more open and connected world is a better world, wrote Zuckerberg.
Were not producing a new generation of this kind of band.
The numbers, released by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), show that men in UK management jobs earned average bonuses of 6,442 in 2012  compared with 3,029 for women.
She wants the baby back, but its four years later: you can understand that the other mother doesnt want to give up her baby, Strydom said.
We all  politicians, business and people  have a responsibility to protect what we all value: a healthy future for people and nature.
If a name is not on a recognized list of 1,853 female and 1,712 male names, the parents must get approval from the Icelandic Naming Committee.
Prince Charles said: Both my wife and I are overjoyed at the arrival of my first grandchild.
About a year and a half ago, he said in 1969, kids suddenly started saying to me, Youre the greatest blues guitarist in the world.
He was not my friend, but I talked with him for three hours, and now he is my friend.
The managers should have ways to pay for broken glasses and plates without taking our tips.
Quali cations: You dont need a degree in computer science.
Lucy Smith, Glastonburys green issues organizer, said: We have amazing water quality in the UK but everyone drinks bottled water.
So after all these years, Goodfellow is  nally among a group of famous British inventors with John Logie Baird (the television), Alan Turing (the Turing machine), Sir Frank Whittle (the jet engine) and Sir Tim Berners-Lee (the World Wide Web).
Earlier in 2013, Allen was watching the news and saw a woman get the British Empire Medal.
To succeed as a race engineer, you need ... to be able to work under pressure.
Its really unfair that money from our tips is taken for breakages by customers.
He also mentioned the earlier blues guitarists Blind Lemon Jefferson and Lonnie Johnson and the jazz players Charlie Christian and Django Reinhardt.
The Stand with Malala petition, that is asking for education for the 57 million children around the world who do not go to school, has got more than four million signatures  more than a million were added after Malalas speech.
Its very positive because its a solution that will make people less ill, and happier and better at what they do.
Shakespeare was famous in his own lifetime but there is little documentary evidence about Shakespeares life and times.
But, these days, the golden arches of McDonalds are not looking so golden.
It is a partnership between the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Oceania Regional Of ce and  ve Paci c Island countries: Samoa, Tonga, New Zealand, the Cook Islands and Fiji.
The registry does not recognize the name of Harriets 12-year-old brother Duncan either, so, until now, the two children have travelled on passports with the names Stlka and Drengur Cardew, which mean Girl and Boy Cardew.
Without them, the history of this great club would not be as rich.
There were about 900 music festivals in the UK between May and September in 2014, he said, and they cannot all continue.
We do not yet live in an age of  ying cars, as predicted in the 1985  lm Back to the Future II, but smartphones and other new technologies are creating exciting possibilities.
said Consuelo Melis, who works in a local cafe.
The Sense About Science guide lists a number of myths about the sources of allergies, for example the myths that fast food or E numbers in food colourings cause allergies.
It is possible that we could use this technology to decode information about what words a person is hearing, reading or possibly even thinking, said Alexander Huth, the main author of the study.
Dave Prentis, of the trade union Unison, said: The majority of workers are only on these contracts because they have no choice.
In Elmas, the scheme has got mixed reactions.
But, in my experience, most prisoners want to change and we must do what we can to help them.
People have mined metals here since Roman times.
In my case, I have always found languages quite easy, apart from the numbers.
Even Nigeria, with its oil wealth, spends only $650 per person, Shepherd said.
And I thought: You shouldnt be ashamed of this.
The polygraph is often used in the US in criminal cases and by the FBI and CIA but is much less popular in Europe.
When I hear someone say, Oh, I cant lose weight, I say: Sellotape.
Geoff Douville says that hes used to noise complaints.
The shop is uniting people here, Kalisa Migendo, a 24-year-old student, says.
Baumgartner went up into clear skies in an enormous balloon  it was 30 million square cubic feet and its skin was one-tenth the thickness of a sandwich bag.
Quali cations: A private-helicopter-pilot licence, a commercial pilots licence and around 2,000 hours of experience  ying at low levels.
Vicki Littman, chairperson of the East Hampton Food Pantry, which gave more than 31,000 food parcels in 2015, says there are more and more people coming to the food pantry.
He didnt want to risk leaving the US, said Goldsmith.
Female directors received bonuses of 36,270 over the past 12 months, compared with 63,700 received by male directors.
After the man pulled me out of the water, Dusty swam away but, then, she came back and looked at me.
Ice cream is important, she says between mouthfuls of honey- avoured ice cream.
Leifert and his colleagues conclude that many antioxidants reduce the risk of serious diseases, including diseases of the heart and certain cancers.
More than 18 million people already have serious food shortages across the Sahel.
Mystery shoppers are usually repaid any money they spend in the stores and may also be allowed to keep the products they buy.
About ten seconds after getting into the car, I forgot I was there.
Perhaps most importantly, more cities are building bike lanes so bicycle commuting has become more popular.
Finnish mobile-phone company Nokia dropped 41 places to 98th at $4.1 billion, just ahead of Nintendo in 100th place (down 33).
A reality show and a talent show, with no ending and the whole world watching.
Ethical hacker Typical salary: A newly quali ed hacker will usually have a minimum salary of 35,000 to 50,000.
Freddie Mercury was our most powerful stage performer, the best live performer weve ever had.
I think, after youve been married for a longer time, you dont keep many secrets.
What the job involves: A company pays an ethical hacker to hack into its computer system to see how well it might  ght a real attack.
When they are not using their phones, 12- to 15-year-olds have a very different relationship with other media, too.
All youre going to achieve, I think, is to worry people.
Apple, and the record industry, cannot afford to get rid of the download market yet  so streaming and downloading will have to coexist under the Apple brand.
He keeps his BlackBerry for messaging, he uses an iPhone to play games, and he makes phone calls on an Android phone.
And, they have been surprised that many bars do not have big screens for the games.
Im a visionary, he says.
But some people criticize farmed fish  they say the fish can be inbred and have high levels of toxins.
It is possible that we could use this technology to decode information about what words a person is hearing, reading or possibly even thinking, said Alexander Huth, the main author of the study.
I couldnt ban smoking in my bar without a ban in the whole city, says Douville.
The results of the research are based on an analysis of 343 studies from around the world  more than ever before  which examine differences between organic and regular fruit, vegetables and cereals.
German-speaking cities do well in the 18th Mercer Quality of Life study, with Vienna, Zurich, Munich, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt in the top seven.
In 2006, the Irish designer completed a scuba-diving course and loved the feeling of being able to breathe underwater and watch  sh in their natural environment.
Now its here, people love it.
In Belo Horizonte, police clashed with protesters who tried to get into a football stadium, where there was a Confederations Cup match between Nigeria and Tahiti.
A top-secret document shows that the US National Security Agency (NSA) now has direct access to the systems of Google, Facebook, Apple and other major US internet companies.
He gets what all referees want every time they referee a match.
Our clients want to know how well their stores are delivering on that experience.
Others have tried everything and, now, they want to go and gain work experience abroad; life experience, too.
Can we create false memories?
Speaking at the same meeting, Derrick Taff, a social scientist at Pennsylvania State University, said that listening to recordings from national parks, of waterfalls, birdsong and wind, helped people feel less stressed.
Rodri, 37, London: Around 50% of a waiters income is tips Average tips: 60 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... the US  Everything has got fairer since the tipping scandal in the summer of 2015.
In my early years, the support of the board of directors gave me the confidence and time to build a football club, not just a football team.
The charity WaterAid is asking people to use recycled water from their baths or rainwater from their gardens, or to use sea water.
They are more popular than nicotine patches but we do not know if they are more effective.
When Iguchi was growing up, Japanese technology ruled the world: they had the Sony Walkman, which was as popular as the iPhone.
The most valuable British brands are HSBC (33rd), Shell (65th) and Burberry (73rd).
Then, he told me that someone had found a message in a bottle and that on the card was my grandfathers name.
Children that get a high-quality  rst experience will have greater agility, balance and coordination, and are more likely to develop an enjoyment of physical activity and be good at sport as they grow up, he said.
When he stayed home, with no sofa for the first few months and no television, he listened to French singer Michel Sardou and read French novels.
You need a 15-minute distance, and typical drones have about that distance.
And climate change is already having a serious effect on Paci c Islanders.
Imagine  a person is told to sit in a chair with wires attached to their skin and a button that will give them a harmless but uncomfortable shock, and they are told to just sit there with their thoughts, she said.
These antibodies are part of the bodys response to infections but the best medical evidence has shown high antibody levels do not suggest an allergy, the guide says.
What the job involves: A race engineer is the interpreter between the race-car mechanics and the driver, says race engineer Jamie Muir.
There are lots of people who would enjoy coming to our bar but they never came because they didnt want to smell like smoke for the next seven days  now, those people can come.
Starbucks is a really great target because it is on every high street in the country so people can take action in their local areas, she said.
Redmond says the mouthpiece feels similar to a snorkel.
I will never forget the wonderful memories he has given us, like that magical night in Moscow.
Freddie Mercury was our most powerful stage performer, the best live performer weve ever had.
Another criticism of the research is that the differences it found may be the result of different climates, different types of soil and different types of crops; they may not be the result of organic farming.
We allow this to happen online so why not in shops?
You cant say to the politicians that wolves are a big tourist attraction.
Patagonia is an important region for the countrys economy because it has oil, fishing, mining and agriculture resources.
The move to bring BlackBerry to the iPhone is four or five years too late, says James Gooderson, a technology blogger.
In 2013, one of the mothers, who is 33 and unemployed, wanted her ex-partner to pay maintenance for her daughter.
Is this the moment when streaming goes mainstream?
At first, he did not believe it was the king.
One initiative, Facebook Home, is software that you can download onto Android phones to feed news and photos from friends  and advertising  directly to your home screen.
In the developing world, there is almost no food waste, says Robert van Otterdijk, coordinator of the UN Food and Agriculture Organizations Save Food programme.
He was trying to break five different records: the first human to ever break the sound barrier in free-fall; the highest free-fall altitude jump; the highest manned balloon flight; the longest free-fall; and his jump platform is probably the largest manned balloon in history.
If people are fascinated by learning, then why not?
Now, I hope, men and women who want to start a family but havent met the right person yet will have another choice, says Limal.
The poll shows that 17% of employers in the private sector use zero-hours contracts, lower than the 34% of organizations in the voluntary sector and 24% in the public sector.
For three-and-a-half years, all the pupils at St Ninians Primary School have walked or run a mile each day.
There is still a possibility that al-Qaida could do something stupid, but we havent stopped Indians from travelling to London.
If they are doing this, they are doing it without our knowledge, one executive said.
Customers expect interaction, 24/7 accessibility, customization options and high levels of personalization, he said.
Food waste is happening in countries where people have more money, so they can throw away food.
BBM says it has 80 million monthly users after its upgrade, but WhatsApp has 300 million.
The project is a key part of Moroccos plans to use its deserts to become a global solar superpower.
Not the Argentinian and Barcelona striker Lionel Messi, but Junior Messi Enguene, a 20-year-old midfielder from Cameroon.
Most of the women feel uncomfortable going to classes with male students they dont know, the volunteers say.
Ed Miliband, the leader of the Labour Party, said the referendum was a vote from the Scottish people for change.
In the section about great British inventions of the twentieth century, it says: In the 1960s, James Goodfellow (1937-) invented the automatic teller machine (ATM) or cashpoint.
4C would be catastrophic, not simply dangerous, Sherwood said.
Were talking about preserving documents for hundreds to thousands of years, said Cerf.
This is a very, very bad idea, he said.
She earns around 30,000 to 40,000 a year and that doesnt include all the freebies she gets on the job.
Robert Mys_ajek stops.
We need to know what characteristics this shopper has and that, when those characteristics are present, this is what a person usually does.
There are famous and very wealthy people but also hard-working and poor people.
Reject pessimism and know that progress is possible.
Americans think that 33% of their population are immigrants but it is really only 14%.
A single brain spot contains a number of related words.
And, each single word appears in many different brain spots.
When he was asked if he felt more comfortable being Captain Wales than Prince Harry, his reply was revealing.
Strydom added: Whatever happens, someone wont be happy.
For example, they can take water from ice in the soil and Mars has sources of nitrogen, the primary element in the air we breathe.
In 2014, Bowie was given the Brit Award for Best British Male  he was the oldest person to get the award.
Children born in October were almost as  t  they scored highest for strength and came third for power, with December children close behind.
But one thing he couldnt do was change the sun.
There must be something wrong with this country, said Nadia al Husin.
They will use the best technology in the world here, Fernandez said.
She earns around 30,000 to 40,000 a year and that doesnt include all the freebies she gets on the job.
"So, with no big bands to headline, there are no big shows.
We asked waiters around the UK what they think of tipping, including how much money they get from tips and if its fair.
Is this the moment when streaming goes mainstream?
I decided to do this because I often go on YouTube and some people are doing it wrong because they dont understand how hard they need to work, says Tabata.
Amazon has asked for its company name to be a top-level domain name (currently .com), but the South American governments say this would stop the use of this internet address for environmental protection, indigenous rights and other public interest uses.
It was an adventure.
When they are  nished, the four plants at Ouarzazate will be as big as Moroccos capital city, Rabat, and make 580 mega-watts of electricity, enough for a million homes.
Andersen had the idea for an artwork he calls the Solspeil, or Sun mirror, at the end of September one year: Every day, we took our young child for a walk, he says, and, every day, I realized we had to go a little further down the valley to find the sun.
Carney and the artist Tracey Emin, who grew up in the town, made the announcement together.
Hearing a salmons click is probably one of the most dif cult things a killer whale does.
The device can take in enough air for two minutes of diving and takes approximately the same amount of time to re ll.
Allowing private companies to register geographical names as gTLDs to profit from the meaning of these names is not, in our view, in the public interest, the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology said.
Sometimes, people allege that we have created a government back door into our systems, but Google does not have a back door for the government to access private user data.
The Stanford mirror re ects 97% of the visible light that falls on it.
Recently, a tiger was captured after it killed two people, including a villager who was pulled from his bed in May.
Most of them did not enjoy the experience.
There are now about 1,500 wolves in Poland.
We will never forget what he has done for this club and for the game in general.
The project is a key part of Moroccos plans to use its deserts to become a global solar superpower.
Even in successful countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam, the proportion was 20%.
He tells customers: Ride this bike once and try not to smile.
The law says that  unless both parents are foreign  the names of children born in Iceland must be submitted to the National Registry within six months of birth.
That is a big, big problem for us.
The site has come at the right time for the country of five million people.
They are free to download and use, and they use the internet to swap text messages, pictures, voice clips, stickers and even videos between most types of phones.
This is a very, very bad idea, he said.
McKinlay believes humans must still able to take control of their navigation.
But 12 of 18 men gave themselves electric shocks and six of 24 women gave themselves electric shocks.
Riley, as a young referee, bought himself books on psychology and nutrition because there was no information on offer to him at all.
This learned deafness is a real problem, Fristrup told the American Association for the Advancement of Science meeting in San Jose.
There has been a reduction in deaths of under-fives of nearly 60%, from 16.4 million in 1970 to 6.8 million in 2010.
They do not need the IPCC to tell them that the weather is changing, said Saleemul Huq, director of the International Centre for Climate Change and Development.
There are riches here, riches that the local inhabitants badly need, said energy spokesman Vicente Fernandez Guerrero.
But Piscedda says, The work I can create, as mayor, is temporary.
It could be even more difficult to get the legal permissions to copy and store software before it dies.
At a smaller rally in Brasilia, demonstrators entered the high-security area of the national congress.
Farmers in Europe, Israel and Australia have also experimented with growing it.
Vienna is the worlds best city to live in, Baghdad is the worst and London, Paris and New York are not in the top 35, says an international study on quality of life.
Children that get a high-quality  rst experience will have greater agility, balance and coordination, and are more likely to develop an enjoyment of physical activity and be good at sport as they grow up, he said.
Think of that next time you put it into your tea.
But, protests have happened less often since the opening day, when small demonstrations took place in several cities and police used pepper spray.
I dont believe she is whiter; its more the makeup, hairstylists and the way she dresses, he said.
For people aged between 24 and about 30 or 35, they lose about an hour and a half.
The IEA says that China and India will drive world coal use in the next five years, and India will probably overtake the US as the worlds second biggest consumer.
I live nearby but luckily I wasnt there, says Munir, a university lecturer.
Stratford was important to Shakespeare all his life, says Paul Edmondson, the head of learning and research at the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
Then, we may need a whole new sort of sleep revolution.
Id like to sit in the same place in the next four years as Joe Kittinger.
Human beings  we always kill the things we love.
The change has been dramatic in Latin America, for example, where countries like Brazil and Paraguay had life expectancy of below 30 in 1970 and almost 64 in 2010.
She reads me a few lines from a poem she has written called That Beast Called Age.
In three years, the number of paying subscribers rose from 8 million to 28 million, according to the 2014 digital music report from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI).
This guy was darker than any modern European, but we dont know how dark, the scientist said.
Describing the average sleep loss per night for different age groups, he says: Between 14 and 24, people lose more than two hours.
On the brains right-hand side, near the top of the head, is one of the brain spots used for family terms: wife, husband, children, parents.
The first three repetitions will feel easy but the last two will feel impossible.
In tests, the second rat responded correctly to the first rats brain signals and pressed the lever 70% of the time.
If we reduced the amount of food we wasted around the world by just 25%, there would be enough food to feed all the hungry people in the world.
Some populations of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians have reduced even more, with freshwater species declining by 76% over the same period.
Or see and speak to a video image of a friend.
When the Russian capsule opened, he felt the cool air of Kazakhstan and smelled a smell like a plant was blooming in that area.
Im always given a speci c task, such as buying something from a speci c department or a new product range, but I can often buy whatever I want  and keep it.
Riley, as a young referee, bought himself books on psychology and nutrition because there was no information on offer to him at all.
If it sounds familiar, its because the internet has been using techniques like these for years.
But Douville feels the ban could be a great business opportunity.
The main aim of the 11,000km trip was to deliver a special message to the World Parks Congress.
Martha Wood lives beside a loud bar that has live music.
We asked waiters around the UK what they think of tipping, including how much money they get from tips and if its fair.
As a woman, its made me happy, said Vronique Soulier, president of the clubs supporters association.
Thats 65 litres of clean, drinkable water that we  ll with soap and wash down the drain each and every day  sometimes more than once.
Since the 2008  nancial crisis, the gap between the rich and the poor has grown and the situation has gotten worse for the wealthy, Cockrell said.
Maria van der Hoeven, Executive Director of the IEA, said that the amount of coal we use continues to grow each year and, if no changes are made, coal will catch oil within ten years.
Only four out of McDonalds 14,000 US restaurants have tested build your own burger, he said.
Jenny Holdcroft, policy director for IndustriALL, which has been closely involved in the Accord, said that the agreement made sure that factories would not lose orders during closure because companies agreed to continue orders with suppliers for two years.
The European Parliament have said that health warnings will cover nearly two-thirds of cigarette packs and there will be a ban on menthol cigarettes in the EU.
Browning said: This research supports what people think about organic food.
The same region responds to killed and murdered.
Job satisfaction: Lewis finds the variety of tasks exciting.
Reiss Jenkinson, a keeper at the National Aquarium, said he was absolutely certain Inky was not stolen.
If they force people outside the bar to smoke, it is going to increase the tension thats already there.
But, on Tuesday April 8th, 2014, she described the extraordinary moment when she received a message in a bottle, 101 years after he threw it into the Baltic Sea.
Brazil said other members of the Amazon Cooperation Treaty support its views (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Suriname and Venezuela).
Someone asked Have you ever used pink slime in your burgers?
Professor Robin Dunbar is famous for his research that says a person can only have about 150 people in their social group.
Food waste is happening in countries where people have more money, so they can throw away food.
You could put the mirrors on top of shopping malls.
For people aged between 24 and about 30 or 35, they lose about an hour and a half.
If youre Gods chosen person, how do you choose not be chosen?
In theory, you could imagine that a combination of brains could find solutions that individual brains cannot find alone.
Our clients want to know how well their stores are delivering on that experience.
Is this the moment when streaming goes mainstream?
It shows the power of Star Wars  the prequels were disappointing but they still made a lot of money, said Rosser.
When the mirror is warmed up, it releases heat at a speci c wavelength of infrared light that goes easily through the atmosphere and out into space.
And it looks terrible for the whole sport when people are collapsing, ball kids are collapsing, people watching are collapsing.
One thing I really liked about Facebook was that I could sit for hours and click on a friend and then click on one of their friends and  nish on someones Facebook page from the other side of the world, she said.
The canoe is our island, the crew is the community and the navigator is the leader, he says.
That way, the mice associated fear of the electric shock with the memory of the first box.
"So, with no big bands to headline, there are no big shows.
And with no friends to follow online, he has to pick up the phone and call them, something he now enjoys.
Race engineer A race engineer takes information from the driver and gives it to the mechanics.
So far, there is no effective treatment for the social problems that autism causes.
China is the biggest coal importer, and Indonesia is the biggest coal exporter.
Even in successful countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam, the proportion was 20%.
We know sitting still kills; not sitting still helps children build skills that will help them for the rest of their lives.
To have wolves, we dont need to remove people from the landscape, said Chapron.
This is a sensitive topic in this mixed-raced country.
For the study, 823 people agreed for researchers to collect metadata from their phones using an app.
Quali cations: A private-helicopter-pilot licence, a commercial pilots licence and around 2,000 hours of experience  ying at low levels.
She wants the baby back, but its four years later: you can understand that the other mother doesnt want to give up her baby, Strydom said.
After six weeks of testing, the group who did Tabatas plan  exercising for just 88 minutes a week  increased their anaerobic capacity by 28% and their VO2 max by 15%.
I asked how she did it: very slow breathing for several minutes before each dive, then a big, deep breath before diving in.
But, the scientists only scanned  ve men and two women.
Britons think it is 44%, when actually 62% are overweight.
On the brains right-hand side, near the top of the head, is one of the brain spots used for family terms: wife, husband, children, parents.
Robert Mys_ajek stops.
On a canoe, you are not just going from one place to another using the stars, the moon, the sun and the birds.
If we understand it better, hopefully we can find a better way to deal with nuclear waste and things that are important in the real world.
Shakespeare was famous in his own lifetime but there is little documentary evidence about Shakespeares life and times.
Quali cations: You dont need a degree in computer science.
Stratford was important to Shakespeare all his life, says Paul Edmondson, the head of learning and research at the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
Rodri, 37, London: Around 50% of a waiters income is tips Average tips: 60 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... the US  Everything has got fairer since the tipping scandal in the summer of 2015.
Youll be able to post photos and videos of what you see on Facebook or send them as an email.
One part of the brain, for example, is used for the word top and also for other words that describe clothes.
He has won 13 Premier League titles, two Champions Leagues, the Cup Winners Cup, five FA Cups and four League Cups.
Vallone says, I want to work but theres no work.
A few weeks earlier, Riley, Dunn and another former referee, Peter Jones, went to another level-5 match to check another young referee  John Brooks.
I wonder what it would be like if I didnt spend this time here and spent it doing something else.
Scientists must find new names for the elements but, also, they must suggest two-letter symbols for the elements.
Flying through time Flying across time zones means that we travel through time.
In 2005, BlackBerry brought instant messaging to the mobile phone and the company was just entering its period of success.
He has decided to rebuild one of the most expensive sites on the avenue as a collection of 20 apartments with a concierge, maid service, 25-metre pool, spa and cinema.
Geoff Douville says that hes used to noise complaints.
His health isnt good, but hes getting better, said Ola Fjeldstad, a Norwegian anthropology student doing research on Ebon Island, one of the Marshall Islands.
There are lots of people who would enjoy coming to our bar but they never came because they didnt want to smell like smoke for the next seven days  now, those people can come.
Councilwoman LaToya Cantrell, who introduced the ban, disagrees: The responsibility is on the bar-owner to keep their customers respectful outside as well, she says.
Some ships are quieter than others but the average noise next to all the ships was 173 underwater decibels, the same as 111 decibels through the air  about the sound of a loud rock concert.
Researchers at the University of Western Australia say the increased number of shark attacks in the state may be because Western Australia has the fastest-growing population in Australia, not because of a rising number of sharks.
The typical swimmer can hold their breath for about 40 seconds while underwater.
One day, Im cleaning up after a dead body; another day, Im in a prison cell.
Tourist numbers have reduced by 80% this year, said Mayor Maria Kakali, in an of ce in the village where she grew up.
At St Ninians, teachers take their pupils out of lessons to the schools playing  eld for their daily mile at a time that suits that days timetable.
Gym fans can benefit by doing three strength sessions and three Tabatas a week.
4C would be catastrophic, not simply dangerous, Sherwood said.
Instead, they decide to use their powerful telescopes to look at Jupiter and Venus and, later, to find stars such as Capella and Betelgeuse.
To avoid the same problems, hes spending money to build a patio.
Speaking at the same meeting, Derrick Taff, a social scientist at Pennsylvania State University, said that listening to recordings from national parks, of waterfalls, birdsong and wind, helped people feel less stressed.
The Labour Party disagreed with a lot of what she did, but we can disagree and also greatly respect her political achievements and her personal strength.
Another protest march, near Rios Maracana Stadium, also had a heavy police response.
The vice-president of Google has warned that digitized material from blogs, tweets, pictures, videos and official documents such as emails could be lost forever because the programs we need to view them will no longer exist.
Inzozi Nziza was opened by Odile Gakire Katese.
DNA tests have shown that Polish wolves are travellers.
Automation We have known about driverless cars ever since Google began testing the vehicles in 2012 but no-one really knows when driverless cars will become commonplace.
I dont think its fair to anybody  to the players, to the fans, to the sport  when you see players passing out, he added.
On cloud nine Most of us are happy to call clouds fluffy ones or nasty black ones, but there are more than 50 cloud types.
Argentina rejects the .patagonia request for a new generic top-level domain.
We need more things for tourists to do in the evening  we dont even have one cinema in this city, he said.
What about false memories for more than just places  false memories for objects, food or other mice?
Then its plutonium power source will run out and it will drift outwards towards the edge of the solar system and deep space beyond.
This guy was darker than any modern European, but we dont know how dark, the scientist said.
You wont be surprised if you see an ex in the street with a new girlfriend or boyfriend: you already know theyre with someone else because youve seen the romantic sel es.
The shop is uniting people here, Kalisa Migendo, a 24-year-old student, says.
The industry accepts people with a very wide range of quali cations and skills.
Bacteria that cause diarrhoea and nausea, as well as E.coli, and the bacteria that can cause skin infections and urinary-tract infections were common all over the city.
He keeps his BlackBerry for messaging, he uses an iPhone to play games, and he makes phone calls on an Android phone.
They will use the best technology in the world here, Fernandez said.
SeaWorlds shares, which were worth $39 in 2013, fell to just under $18 in August 2015.
Argentina is unhappy that the US outdoor clothing retailer, Patagonia, wants a domain name that has been known far longer as a region of spectacular beauty.
David Kirkpatrick, author of The Facebook Effect, said that we need to get used to it.
The way clouds affect global warming has been the biggest mystery in the study of future climate change.
It was Spains worst environmental disaster and the clean-up cost 90 million.
Chinese inequality levels are now similar to those in South Africa, which is now the most unequal country on Earth.
Patagonia is an important region for the countrys economy because it has oil, fishing, mining and agriculture resources.
Its really unfair that money from our tips is taken for breakages by customers.
But ACEA fully accepts that the regulation will apply to new types of cars from September 2017.
The report says that injuries are often the first opportunity to discover violence in the home and to offer the woman help.
From all across Rwanda, and even from Burundi, people are coming to the southern town of Butare to a little shop called Inzozi Nziza (Sweet Dreams).
Some danced, some took photos, some drank, but mostly they just walked and talked about football, waiting for the next game to begin on the big screen nearby.
The owners need to tell them to go and have a smoke but be respectful to their communities.
There are only two other northern white rhinos in the world, both in zoos, both female.
It says that the grain could play an important role in school meals and emergency aid programmes, and help reduce malnutrition  particularly among children.
How does he feel when he watches football on TV and a referee is attacked?
Pullman, writer of the His Dark Materials trilogy, says authors and musicians work in poverty for years to bring their work to the level that gives happiness to their audiences and, when they achieve that, the possibility of making money from it is taken away from them.
On some sites, there was an option to click saying: Id like kids someday, but I read the persons profile and thought: You will never have time!
In this way, they named the city people lived in 57% of the time and were nearly 90% correct in guessing, within 50 miles, where people lived.
Hannah, a 41-year-old lawyer, has made nearly 500 visits for the Mystery Dining Company in her spare time without receiving pay or travel expenses.
I think people will think the ad is really cute.
But Soulier was hopeful: Hopefully, with the new manager, the club can find the motivation they dont have at the moment, she said.
Two young mothers bring their children into the square and stand in the sun.
Its very positive because its a solution that will make people less ill, and happier and better at what they do.
Oh yes!
The two-year study recorded the sound made by 12 different types of ship, including cruise ships, container ships and military ships, that passed through the strait about 20 times a day.
All were tested between 2007 and 2010 on three different things: stamina, handgrip strength and lower-body power.
The number of 19-to-21-year-olds who visit McDonalds once a month has fallen by 13% since 2011.
It makes the referees job better and makes them more effective on the field of play, says Riley.
The normal school starting time works for 10-year-olds but not for 16- to 18-year-olds.
Criminologists from around the world have been travelling to Switzerland over the past few years to see the new method.
The importance of clean water is becoming harder and harder to ignore  for example, there is another summer of drought in California.
He gets what all referees want every time they referee a match.
We need to know what characteristics this shopper has and that, when those characteristics are present, this is what a person usually does.
She has many adventures as Johansson and, in the end, dies in a car crash.
And, they have been surprised that many bars do not have big screens for the games.
Kelley says the working day should be more linked to our natural rhythms.
Smoking levels in England are at their lowest since records began  19.5 per cent  but we want to reduce the numbers of people smoking even more and believe this important step will help.
Its important to be able to reorganize staff rotas quickly to respond to the weather and zero-hours contracts allow us to do this.
Even worse, there were too many victims in my stories  83 dead in a fi re at 6pm become 38 dead by 7pm; 12 people injured in a coach crash soon became two and so it went on.
We believe that its possible to export energy to Europe but,  rst, we have to build the connections, which dont yet exist, said Maha el-Kadiri, a Masen spokeswoman.
In 2005, BlackBerry brought instant messaging to the mobile phone and the company was just entering its period of success.
You never see a picture of a Mesolithic hunter-gatherer with dark skin and blue eyes, Lalueza-Fox said.
If we have to pay a tax of 23%, we will all die on the island, says Kakali.
If we have to pay a tax of 23%, we will all die on the island, says Kakali.
If  nding peace and quiet becomes too dif cult, many children will grow up without the experience and I think its a very big problem, he said.
The results showed that a childs month of birth could make big differences to their levels of  tness, muscle strength and ability to accelerate, all of which predict how good someone is at sport.
Retailers are becoming increasingly aware that shoppers who visit a physical store want a service and an experience they cant get online, says Simon Boydell, spokesman for Marketforce, which has more than 300,000 mystery shoppers.
There are a lot of people hiding their wealth because they are worried about negative judgment, said Traeger-Muney.
But Piscedda says, The work I can create, as mayor, is temporary.
Legos profits rose strongly in the first half of 2014, helped by the success of its Lego Movie in the US and UK.
Their Grecian columns are cracking into pieces and mosaic-tiled swimming pools are filled with broken stones.
The National Theatre, the Royal Shakespeare Company and almost every other theatre production company in the country will celebrate the anniversary.
The trip has not been without its problems.
Dave Prentis, of the trade union Unison, said: The majority of workers are only on these contracts because they have no choice.
Luxury hotels give people sleep retreats; more than $1,000 gets you dinner and a movie about sleep.
This follows the advice of Muslim scholars who have said Muslims in the far north should observe Ramadan using the timetable of Mecca or the nearest Muslim city.
You could use the mirrors on buildings and spend much less money on air conditioning or maybe you wouldnt need it at all.
His foreign-made clothes, including his underwear, were replaced with more expensive alternatives: French-produced underpants (26), socks (9), polo shirt (75), espadrille sandals (26), but no jeans because none are produced in France.
Most (68%) choose five-star hotels overseas.
Needle in a haystack With modern technology, it seems strange that Malaysian flight MH370 could disappear  but finding a missing aircraft is a needle-in-ahaystack problem.
So he tried crowdfunding on a US website, Indiegogo, which has recently opened up in the UK.
Lots of her friends cant pay for heating or medicine and many would be hungry if they did not get food from the East Hampton Food Pantry, she says.
We are creating an organic computer.
For all adults, this rises to 20% and, for young adults, it is 9%.
In 2014, 1,215 rhinos were killed for their horns in South Africa.
Following tradition, a formal notice was put on an easel  the same easel that was used to announce Prince Williams birth in 1982  in front of Buckingham Palace just before 9pm.
The trip has not been without its problems.
His income has fallen slowly, because of his illness and his wifes illness, the cost of his sons marriage, the death of his father and loss of goods such as  shing nets.
Even in the world of classical music, one of the worlds top pianists surprised the audience in June 2013 when he left the stage because a fan was filming his performance on a smartphone.
People have mined metals here since Roman times.
He said he hoped the research would help health of cials to prevent and track diseases.
He had his first UK number 1 album with Aladdin Sane (1973), which included the hit singles The Jean Genie and Drive-in Saturday.
The first three repetitions will feel easy but the last two will feel impossible.
In my job, I spend a lot of time listening to peoples lives all day, every day and it started to feel too much to go on social media and see every detail of everybodys lives, including people that I dont know very well, she said.
VisitBritains director, Patricia Yates, said: The links between tourism, films and TV are strong.
If it sounds familiar, its because the internet has been using techniques like these for years.
He said the message we need to save the planet was slightly wrong: The planet will get better; its us that wont be here because well destroy the environment.
Kelley says that synchronized hours could have many positive effects.
Lauren Raskauskas, 22, Naples, Florida Raskauskas describes herself as a private person.
It makes the referees job better and makes them more effective on the field of play, says Riley.
Each day, they spend up to eight hours visiting  ve to ten stores, plus another hour or two writing detailed reports on every part of their visit.
By percentage, the most wasted food is lettuce and leafy salads  people throw away 38% (64,000 tonnes) of all they buy.
But, in Silicon Valley, everyone is from everywhere.
But we are finding that the mistakes are being made by the models that predict less warming, not the models that predict more warming.
The  ndings seem to show that children born in the early months of the school year enjoy a double autumn advantage  we already know that they have an academic advantage and, now, they also seem to be better at sport, too.
I would only stop if it hurt my health, Karim said.
Peter Sands, the former head of Standard Chartered Bank, said we should get rid of large notes, including the 500, the $100, the 1,000 Swiss Franc note and the 50.
Most important, said Chapron, is the EU Habitats Directive, which has forced member states to protect and revive rare species.
If you search Google Images for Google Glasses, one of the first pictures is of a large, naked man wearing them in the shower.
The Swiss Federal Office of Justice said of the latest arrests: They are in custody before their extradition.
The highest levels of violence against women are in Africa, where nearly half of all women  45.6%  will experience physical or sexual violence.
Stratford was important to Shakespeare all his life, says Paul Edmondson, the head of learning and research at the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
We think dolphins are lovely and we have faith in them  who would think a dolphin would ever attack a person?
Thavis agreed: What I find particularly courageous is that he is going now, when he is not sick; and that hes leaving because hes tired and not because hes ill.
He hopes that the easier timetable will encourage his son  it means about 15 hours of fasting, not 18 hours like in Edmonton.
Big efforts have been made in recent years to increase the number of those who carry an organ donation card, with a lot of success.
But, in that fi rst journalism job, getting the numbers wrong didnt always mean failure.
Concrete barriers  often painted in the Syrian flags black, red and white  now protect official buildings, not just the military or defence installations that are obvious targets.
Only one compartment had a light above the lever.
We think that filming at concerts adds to the experience, and I think that, if Kate Bush came round for a cup of tea, we could have a really interesting discussion about this, he added.
We want everyone to be who he and she is  whether they are gay and lesbian or try to stop violence and are then victims of harassment.
His eye is a sad black dot in his big face as he walks around the reserve with his guards.
Imagine  a person is told to sit in a chair with wires attached to their skin and a button that will give them a harmless but uncomfortable shock, and they are told to just sit there with their thoughts, she said.
He was known as The Beale Street Blues Boy but this was shortened to Blues Boy King and then to BB.
And, each single word appears in many different brain spots.
His classmates post about parties and events on Facebook but they send him a text message, too, he said.
As temperatures rise and oceans become warmer, there will be big changes in annual rainfall in tropical and subtropical regions, says the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, released in Stockholm and published online in September 2013.
4C would be catastrophic, not simply dangerous, Sherwood said.
He leaves behind his wife, Iman, their daughter, Alexandria, his stepdaughter, Zulekha, and his son, Duncan, from his first marriage.
Pilots often have to  y next to the power line, sometimes as little as 20 feet away and just 30 feet off the ground.
He said he hoped the research would help health of cials to prevent and track diseases.
I make around 20 a shift in tips but often I only get 10-15 of that money.
Ive thought about buying and seen mortgage advisers but I just cant borrow enough to get on the property ladder.
As you can see, everything here is fine but we have to hit the terrorists, these extremists, an army officer said.
Ethical hacker Typical salary: A newly quali ed hacker will usually have a minimum salary of 35,000 to 50,000.
The atlas shows how words and related terms use the same regions of the brain.
There are only two other northern white rhinos in the world, both in zoos, both female.
Steve Deace, an Iowa conservative, said that Trumps behaviour is both a good and a bad thing.
Audis were the favourite cars of 16% of winners, with Range Rovers and BMWs also popular (11% each), as well as Mercedes (10%) and Land Rovers (5%).
Reducing speed by six knots could decrease noise by half.
Carle, 26, decided, in 2013, to see if it was possible to live using only French-made products for ten months as part of a television documentary.
He is planning Britains first astrovillage  it would have the largest public observatory in the world, a 100-seat auditorium, a 100-seat planetarium, and radiomagnetic and solar telescopes.
The rest of their viewing time is spent watching DVDs, streamed content through Net ix or iTunes and recorded television programmes.
The way clouds affect global warming has been the biggest mystery in the study of future climate change.
He added: Our study showed that the false memory and the real memory use very similar, almost identical, brain mechanisms.
In 2013, one of the mothers, who is 33 and unemployed, wanted her ex-partner to pay maintenance for her daughter.
There is the feeling that they have to hide that they are rich.
When we came in the next morning and his tank was empty, I was really surprised, said Yarrell, who has not started looking for Inky.
The actor Mark Rylance has called the First Folio his favourite book in the world and most of the surviving First Folios will be on display  including those that belong to the British and Bodleian libraries, and a copy recently discovered in France.
Its important to be able to reorganize staff rotas quickly to respond to the weather and zero-hours contracts allow us to do this.
According to the IEAs Medium-Term Coal Market Report, the world will burn 1.2bn more tonnes of coal per year by 2017 compared with today.
I asked how she did it: very slow breathing for several minutes before each dive, then a big, deep breath before diving in.
A few weeks earlier, Riley, Dunn and another former referee, Peter Jones, went to another level-5 match to check another young referee  John Brooks.
Coldplay is probably the last one and that was ten years ago.
Subscription services are easily accessible from smartphones and tablets, so they are popular with people who want to try out new music without buying a download or a CD.
A quarter of women also pressed the shock button.
He once explained that his guitar technique was partly the result of his lack of skill: I started to bend notes because I could never play in the bottleneck style.
La premiere chose quon regarde (The First Thing We Look At) by Gregoire Delacourt is the story of a French model who looks so similar to the American actor that the books main male character thinks she is Johansson.
In 2012, scientists chose the formal name flerovium for element 114, after the Flerov Lab at Dubnas Joint Institute of Research.
Anthony Joyce, a surfer who once had his foot caught in a sharks mouth, said: The number of sharks they are going to kill is going to make no difference.
Testing hair is also pointless, the guide says.
For example, it would make life difficult, if not impossible, in much of the tropics and it would guarantee the eventual melting of the Greenland ice sheet and some of the Antarctic ice sheet.
He added: Our study showed that the false memory and the real memory use very similar, almost identical, brain mechanisms.
Buildings warm up in different ways.
The move to bring BlackBerry to the iPhone is four or five years too late, says James Gooderson, a technology blogger.
His classmates post about parties and events on Facebook but they send him a text message, too, he said.
You have 20kg to 50kg of gear with you  you cant just walk on the beach and decide you want to go in.
It shows the power of Star Wars  the prequels were disappointing but they still made a lot of money, said Rosser.
This is a huge physical advantage, said Sandercock.
There is little work here, said Alessandro Macis.
Prices have gone up but they havent gone up as quickly as the rest of the fast-food chains in the US.
Victoria Azarenka said, It felt pretty hot, like youre dancing in a frying pan or something like that.
The government doesnt pay much attention to the islands of the north Aegean, she said, so I would take all the kids from our school to the gates of parliament, to tell them: There is still life in these islands.
We believe that its possible to export energy to Europe but,  rst, we have to build the connections, which dont yet exist, said Maha el-Kadiri, a Masen spokeswoman.
Shower less, put down the soap and let those lovely little bacteria  ourish.
I make around 20 a shift in tips but often I only get 10-15 of that money.
One minute and 12 seconds.
Quali cations: To dive offshore, you must have diving quali cations.
Maria van der Hoeven, Executive Director of the IEA, said that the amount of coal we use continues to grow each year and, if no changes are made, coal will catch oil within ten years.
To succeed as a bomb-disposal diver, you need ... to be calm in stressful situations.
All youre going to achieve, I think, is to worry people.
This is a very, very bad idea, he said.
We do not yet live in an age of  ying cars, as predicted in the 1985  lm Back to the Future II, but smartphones and other new technologies are creating exciting possibilities.
His team found meningitis at Times Square, a trace of anthrax on a train carriage and bacteria that cause plague on a rubbish bin and ticket machine at stations in uptown Manhattan.
Almost 60 years since Ray Kroc opened his  rst restaurant in Des Plaines, Illinois, consumers are losing their appetite for a Big Mac and fries.
He warned that the false memories created in the mice in the experiments were far simpler than the complex false memories people have, such as false memories of childhood sexual abuse, abduction by aliens, or past lives.
Carlos Davila, who works for the Spanish Ornithological Society in Donana, was also alarmed at the idea.
One thing I really liked about Facebook was that I could sit for hours and click on a friend and then click on one of their friends and  nish on someones Facebook page from the other side of the world, she said.
As soon as the children at a primary school in Stirling, Scotland, hear the words daily mile, they leave the classroom and start running around the school  eld.
Marketforce shoppers usually get a couple of pounds for a visit, for their time and effort, says Boydell.
The worst transport problems were in Natal, where bus drivers were on strike.
His income has fallen slowly, because of his illness and his wifes illness, the cost of his sons marriage, the death of his father and loss of goods such as  shing nets.
JMW Turner, one of Britains greatest painters, will be on the new 20 note, after a national vote.
Its much more complex, says Benedict Evans, a digital media specialist.
Changes to US surveillance law, introduced under President Bush and renewed under Obama in December 2012, made it possible for the NSA to access the information.
Delacourt is one of Frances best-loved authors; his last novel, My List of Desires, was translated into 47 languages and they are making a  lm of it.
About 780 more children are preparing to start school in 2017.
We also have terri c public transport  the underground trains run 24 hours at weekends and it only costs 1 per trip.
Another criticism of the research is that the differences it found may be the result of different climates, different types of soil and different types of crops; they may not be the result of organic farming.
For the older teenagers, it might be better to start the school day at 11am or even later.
Just in Stirling, 30 schools have already started or are going to start the daily mile.
The problem is that, in the US and UK, most people who want to join Facebook have already done it, said new media specialist Ian Maude at Enders Analysis.
To be able to dispose of the bombs safely, youll also need a special quali cation and years of experience.
Its impossible to get water hotter than 90C during flight  so choose coffee.
Nearly 80% of young smartphone owners regularly use a social networking application but two-thirds use more than one.
The Cardews could solve Harriets problem by giving her an Icelandic middle name.
There is not much Ethiopian teff on the international market, so farmers in the US have started planting the crop.
He keeps his BlackBerry for messaging, he uses an iPhone to play games, and he makes phone calls on an Android phone.
He also has the support of a sports psychologist and an exercise regime to help him run 11km during a game.
The website ATMInventor.com says: Who invented the idea of an ATM?
Michael Day, 30, who lives with his parents in Bristol, says its difficult to save for a mortgage deposit when rents are so high.
We will take care of them so the whole situation is not going to repeat at the new house they are in, says Boer.
After the Sharpeville massacre, in which 69 black protesters were shot dead by police, he took the difficult decision to begin an armed struggle.
The industry accepts people with a very wide range of quali cations and skills.
It was Mathew Morris who first found the body, in the first hour of the first day of the excavation.
With his Icelandic wife, Kristin, Cardew is appealing against a decision by the National Registry in the capital Reykjavik  the registry decided not to renew the Cardews ten-year-old daughter Harriets passport because it does not recognize her first name.
Each day, they spend up to eight hours visiting  ve to ten stores, plus another hour or two writing detailed reports on every part of their visit.
The charity National Trust, which employs many of its seasonal workers on zero-hours contracts, said it gives the same pay and bene ts to workers on zero-hours contracts as to full-time staff.
The charity National Trust, which employs many of its seasonal workers on zero-hours contracts, said it gives the same pay and bene ts to workers on zero-hours contracts as to full-time staff.
Until now, the differences between commercial, governmental and other types of identity were easy to see in every internet address by the use of .com, .gov and 20 other categories.
I will never forget the wonderful memories he has given us, like that magical night in Moscow.
Restaurant chains Ask and Zizzi also deduct 8% of the tips paid by card.
His sons sunglasses were stolen almost as soon as he sat on the beach.
They are more popular than nicotine patches but we do not know if they are more effective.
Female directors received bonuses of 36,270 over the past 12 months, compared with 63,700 received by male directors.
Elle, 22, Edinburgh: We never know whether its fair Average tips: 20 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... France  I have three part-time jobs.
Frightened Japanese supporters ran from the area holding their children, when they heard shots  perhaps rubber bullets or tear gas.
According to the IUCN, in 2013, less than three per cent of the worlds oceans was in marine protected areas and less than one per cent of that is no take (no  shing).
Argentina rejects the .patagonia request for a new generic top-level domain.
It is a partnership between the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Oceania Regional Of ce and  ve Paci c Island countries: Samoa, Tonga, New Zealand, the Cook Islands and Fiji.
As soon as the children at a primary school in Stirling, Scotland, hear the words daily mile, they leave the classroom and start running around the school  eld.
The artist said he wanted to encourage Cubans to become familiar with the internet.
She now has an album and a huge hit single, Show das Poderosas, which was number one in the charts and attracted 52 million YouTube views.
Pullman, writer of the His Dark Materials trilogy, says authors and musicians work in poverty for years to bring their work to the level that gives happiness to their audiences and, when they achieve that, the possibility of making money from it is taken away from them.
We know sitting still kills; not sitting still helps children build skills that will help them for the rest of their lives.
It was the highest rescue ever on Everest and highlights the increase in helicopter flights in recent years.
The Globo newspaper listed a number of problems in the 12 host cities.
It was very surprising, Erdmann, 62, said, when she described how she found out about the bottle.
If youve trained hard enough all your life, or the last few weeks, and you believe you can do it and come through it, theres no reason.
We know our country needs to change.
The researchers used underwater microphones to measure the noise made by about 1,600 ships as they passed through Haro Strait, in Washington State, USA.
In 2006, the Irish designer completed a scuba-diving course and loved the feeling of being able to breathe underwater and watch  sh in their natural environment.
It will be somewhere people can come in from the cold to a comfortable chair, a hot cup of tea, a book and a cat.
Kelley says the working day should be more linked to our natural rhythms.
There are a lot of people hiding their wealth because they are worried about negative judgment, said Traeger-Muney.
In 2014, 1,215 rhinos were killed for their horns in South Africa.
This is a huge physical advantage, said Sandercock.
But Stratford is where he bought land and houses, where he kept his library, where he lived and read and thought.
Weve only been studying vaping for just over a year, so its a short time period, but we are not seeing growth in the number of long-term ex-smokers or never smokers using e-cigarettes.
Caroline Wozniacki said: I put the water bottle down on the court and it started melting a little bit.
Steck was planning to climb Everests west ridge and then immediately climb Lhotse via a new route without fixed ropes.
The IEA says that China and India will drive world coal use in the next five years, and India will probably overtake the US as the worlds second biggest consumer.
Theres less water for agriculture and less water for all the new lodges that they are building.
Bananas have been the most popular fruit in the UK since 1996  adults ate 221g per adult per week in 2014, much more than apples (131g) and oranges (48g).
In my early years, the support of the board of directors gave me the confidence and time to build a football club, not just a football team.
We want to defend them.
He said the message we need to save the planet was slightly wrong: The planet will get better; its us that wont be here because well destroy the environment.
According to research by the International Council on Clean Transportation in 2014, actual nitrogen oxide emissions from cars are seven times higher than the 80mg per kilometre standard and some cars are 22 times above the recommended limit.
When you enter a department store, cameras are watching you.
Lima has black vultures.
One initiative, Facebook Home, is software that you can download onto Android phones to feed news and photos from friends  and advertising  directly to your home screen.
I wont do those jobs anymore.
In some societies, are certain forms of violence against women acceptable?
It went to the top of the UK album chart and gave him a top 10 single, Jump They Say.
Youve lost them in Spain, in Bali, said Abdullah.
Councilwoman LaToya Cantrell, who introduced the ban, disagrees: The responsibility is on the bar-owner to keep their customers respectful outside as well, she says.
He added: Our study showed that the false memory and the real memory use very similar, almost identical, brain mechanisms.
Paralympian, Tanni Grey-Thompson, chair of ukactive, a health organization for physical activity, said: All children need to achieve 60 active minutes every day  this can be in a lesson, on the walk to school or in the playground.
Apple is good at making products go mainstream but its not that good.
But you still hear horror stories from new employees at some chains.
Fresh potatoes are also becoming less popular with a 67% decrease from 1974, when adults ate around 188g every day.
It makes the referees job better and makes them more effective on the field of play, says Riley.
The second is education, from early childhood to the start of work, so people can escape and stay out of poverty.
What the job involves: A race engineer is the interpreter between the race-car mechanics and the driver, says race engineer Jamie Muir.
Leifert and his colleagues conclude that many antioxidants reduce the risk of serious diseases, including diseases of the heart and certain cancers.
The media, she said, makes the rich feel like they need to hide or feel ashamed.
There are lots of people who would enjoy coming to our bar but they never came because they didnt want to smell like smoke for the next seven days  now, those people can come.
We knew the books would be beautiful but we didnt realize they would be such a big success.
And I thought: You shouldnt be ashamed of this.
In Belo Horizonte, police clashed with protesters who tried to get into a football stadium, where there was a Confederations Cup match between Nigeria and Tahiti.
In the US, the share of national income that goes to the top 1% of people has doubled since 1980 from 10% to 20%, the report says.
Part of the reason for this is simply that air travel is dangerous so standards are much higher.
4 Facebook has been the tool to organize revolutions Organizing demonstrations has been revolutionized by Facebook.
The group plans to send a lander and satellite to Mars in 2018, followed by a rover in 2020 and cargo missions starting in 2022.
British people think the richest 1% own 59% of their countrys wealth, when they actually only own 23%.
Maycon de Mattos Batista, a financial analyst who used to work with Anitta, said there has been a huge change in Anittas image, but not of her colour.
If they force people outside the bar to smoke, it is going to increase the tension thats already there.
If they force people outside the bar to smoke, it is going to increase the tension thats already there.
But he could not afford meat and fish  expensive, luxury products in Liberian markets but essential sources of protein.
I wrote a real love story about womens beauty, especially interior beauty.
One part of the brain, for example, is used for the word top and also for other words that describe clothes.
But, since it introduced $2 items on its dollar menu, people think it is more expensive than its rivals and many consumers complain that service is slower.
Youre advertising a problem that doesnt exist in a big way and youre going to stop people from wanting to come to Perth and your beautiful countryside around it.
The media, she said, makes the rich feel like they need to hide or feel ashamed.
But you still hear horror stories from new employees at some chains.
Cafe_ Rouge, Bella Italia and Belgo deduct 10%; Strada and Giraffe do, too.
Americans think that 33% of their population are immigrants but it is really only 14%.
It was important to me to leave an organization in the strongest possible condition and I believe I have done so.
Speaking outside 10 Downing Street, British Prime Minister, David Cameron said: It is wonderful news from St Marys, Paddington, and I am sure that, right across the country, and, indeed, right across the Commonwealth, people are celebrating and wishing the royal couple well.
We will never forget what he has done for this club and for the game in general.
David Kirkpatrick, author of The Facebook Effect, said that we need to get used to it.
His team found meningitis at Times Square, a trace of anthrax on a train carriage and bacteria that cause plague on a rubbish bin and ticket machine at stations in uptown Manhattan.
The fall of the Berlin Wall helped make Vienna a centre for companies who want to do business in Central Europe.
A third wrote: I wish her welcome and success but I think itll be hard for her to do well as a woman in such a macho business.
For three-and-a-half years, all the pupils at St Ninians Primary School have walked or run a mile each day.
London has about 22,000 black taxis and Conyon thinks that the total number of people who drive taxis in the UK is about 100,000.
When Larry Pizzi first heard about electric bikes nearly 20 years ago, he asked: Why would anyone want to spoil a bike by putting a motor and batteries on it?
They still have to fast for around 18 hours a day, said Atif Jilani, who moved to Iqaluit from Toronto.
The two-year study recorded the sound made by 12 different types of ship, including cruise ships, container ships and military ships, that passed through the strait about 20 times a day.
But, like many fans, they said they loved the atmosphere of this tournament, which has had a spectacular start.
Prices have gone up but they havent gone up as quickly as the rest of the fast-food chains in the US.
Burma, Bangladesh and India can expect stronger cyclones; elsewhere in southern Asia, there will probably be heavier summer rainfalls.
Talking about the car, he said, Youre just sitting there; no steering wheel, no pedals.
What about false memories for more than just places  false memories for objects, food or other mice?
Steve Deace, an Iowa conservative, said that Trumps behaviour is both a good and a bad thing.
If you have a vehicle that can go into a neighbourhood, it can deliver from that vehicle.
Im a romantic.
Karabo Ngidi, a lawyer with the centre, said: We must do what is best for the children.
The  ndings seem to show that children born in the early months of the school year enjoy a double autumn advantage  we already know that they have an academic advantage and, now, they also seem to be better at sport, too.
I couldnt ban smoking in my bar without a ban in the whole city, says Douville.
You could put the mirrors on top of shopping malls.
SeaWorlds shares, which were worth $39 in 2013, fell to just under $18 in August 2015.
Its particularly true for people like Karim who have followed the local sunrise and sunset carefully.
Hearing a salmons click is probably one of the most dif cult things a killer whale does.
It is outrageous that anyone can steal an artists work without punishment.
Some local authorities and organizations treat e-cigarettes like cigarettes  they ban them in public places and outdoors, he said.
A more open and connected world is a better world, wrote Zuckerberg.
When water evaporates from the oceans, the vapour can rise over nine miles to form rain clouds that reflect sunlight; or, it may rise just a few miles and fall slowly back down without forming clouds.
Maycon de Mattos Batista, a financial analyst who used to work with Anitta, said there has been a huge change in Anittas image, but not of her colour.
But it doesnt mean theyre going to win.
What is it like to look at the last of something?
There may also be claims from Malaysia, where large numbers of people were put in prison during the 12-year war with communist fighters and their supporters that began in 1948.
He didnt want to risk leaving the US, said Goldsmith.
The image also shows a dramatic canyon 7 to 9km deep.
Cafe_ Rouge, Bella Italia and Belgo deduct 10%; Strada and Giraffe do, too.
The Stanford mirror re ects 97% of the visible light that falls on it.
They collected more than 25,000 kilos of dead  sh afterwards and nearly 2,000 adult birds, chicks, eggs and nests were killed or destroyed.
In Iceland, you can be called Aagot, Arney or sfrur; Baldey, Bebba or Br.
The government doesnt pay much attention to the islands of the north Aegean, she said, so I would take all the kids from our school to the gates of parliament, to tell them: There is still life in these islands.
In the novel, the models beauty means that men see her only as a sex object and women are jealous of her.
The Japanese team is considering three names for element 113: japonium, rikenium and nishinarium, after the Nishina Center for Accelerator-Based Science, where they found the element.
The shape of the wing pushes air down.
A little later, the football club secretary arrived to pay the officials for their time  the match fee at level 5 is 95 so it is clear that these men do not do it for the money.
It was the highest rescue ever on Everest and highlights the increase in helicopter flights in recent years.
I wont do those jobs anymore.
In 2012, the FAO published a list of 1,909 edible species of insect and plans a major international conference on this valuable food source in 2013.
To see what driverless cars might look like on the road, go to the video at: vimeo.com/37751380.
Tatyana Bets was at work in the reception area of a hospital clinic in the centre of the city when the meteorite hit.
In the section about great British inventions of the twentieth century, it says: In the 1960s, James Goodfellow (1937-) invented the automatic teller machine (ATM) or cashpoint.
The MEPs voted to put health warnings on 65% of each cigarette pack.
Were not producing a new generation of this kind of band.
The internationally known Cuban artist Kcho is providing the service.
Can we create false memories?
East Africa can expect more short rainfalls and west Africa should expect heavier monsoons.
One thing I really liked about Facebook was that I could sit for hours and click on a friend and then click on one of their friends and  nish on someones Facebook page from the other side of the world, she said.
One weekend they created the recipe; the next weekend they brewed 1,600 litres.
The normal time limit for a civil action is three to six years, they said.
Another protest march, near Rios Maracana Stadium, also had a heavy police response.
We should break our fast when its dusk but we eat when the sun is up.
It was the highest rescue ever on Everest and highlights the increase in helicopter flights in recent years.
All around the subway, there were bacteria from cheeses  brie, cheddar, parmesan and the mozzarella found on New York pizza.
Money is not the only thing, he said.
Here, at the central African countrys  rst ice-cream shop, customers can buy ice cream in sweet cream, passion fruit, strawberry and pineapple  avours.
The canoe is our island, the crew is the community and the navigator is the leader, he says.
Theres a lot of wealth here but almost all of that wealth is in second homes only used in the summer, says Cantwell, the son of a  sherman father and a house-cleaner mother.
The Spanish team started their work after a group of cave explorers found two skeletons in a deep cave high up in the Cantabrian Mountains of northwest Spain in 2006.
A quarter of women also pressed the shock button.
This idea comes from common sense and experience, he told the Guardian.
I wrote a real love story about womens beauty, especially interior beauty.
Illegal downloading is morally wrong, and it is theft, the same as putting your hand in someones pocket and stealing their wallet is theft, says author Philip Pullman.
In the developing world, there is almost no food waste, says Robert van Otterdijk, coordinator of the UN Food and Agriculture Organizations Save Food programme.
Job satisfaction: Working outside and seeing British wildlife really close is the best part of the job, says Mowat.
They spend 20% of their time watching short video clips, for example on YouTube, or news clips on Facebook and other social sites.
Automation We have known about driverless cars ever since Google began testing the vehicles in 2012 but no-one really knows when driverless cars will become commonplace.
This beer is not aimed at women, says Thomas Bingebo, the head brewer at Ocean.
The trouble is that Spain does not have the public resources it had 16 years ago.
They work with the police, the probation service and other, voluntary organizations to help members of the violent criminal gangs of London.
It shows the power of Star Wars  the prequels were disappointing but they still made a lot of money, said Rosser.
She has deleted her Twitter account and deleted her Facebook account two years ago when she realized that she didnt like everyone knowing what I was doing.
At a swimming pool in Bristol, she taught me some simple ways to help me hold my breath for longer while swimming underwater.
To succeed as a race engineer, you need ... to be able to work under pressure.
What the job involves: A race engineer is the interpreter between the race-car mechanics and the driver, says race engineer Jamie Muir.
Even in successful countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam, the proportion was 20%.
So he tried crowdfunding on a US website, Indiegogo, which has recently opened up in the UK.
They will seal his manuscript and put it next to Atwoods manuscript in a room in Oslos new public library, which will open in 2019.
Britons think it is 44%, when actually 62% are overweight.
Even the contacts and calendar sharing that BBM made possible on BlackBerry phones are not on the Apple and Android versions.
Lovemore, from Zimbabwe, is now one of the poorest people in his village.
Subscription services are easily accessible from smartphones and tablets, so they are popular with people who want to try out new music without buying a download or a CD.
The biggest change is in time spent talking on the phone.
He also said the heat caused him to hallucinate: I was dizzy from the middle of the fi rst set and then I saw Snoopy and I thought, Wow, Snoopy  thats weird.
Its things like that  the hospital where your first child was born, for example  that are important to people and all thats going to disappear.
Tom, Manchester: A big night of tips can help pay the rent Average tips: 40 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... Italy  Where I used to work, waiters kept 80% of cash tips and 40% of card tips.
The Scottish government also supports the idea.
After they stop working, they sometimes find it difficult to make friends and adapt to school.
In 1996, someone suggested the symbol Cp for copernicium, or element 112, but it was changed to Cn, when scientists complained that Cp was already the symbol for another substance.
It wasnt easy and it wasnt immediate.
I make around 20 a shift in tips but often I only get 10-15 of that money.
I wonder what it would be like if I didnt spend this time here and spent it doing something else.
Apple is good at making products go mainstream but its not that good.
The right of indigenous people in South 6 Americas Andean region to chew coca leaf was removed in 1964 when Bolivia was under a dictatorship and it signed the convention.
The normal school starting time works for 10-year-olds but not for 16- to 18-year-olds.
We found Vancomycin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (VRSA) in our hospitals.
He says, Trump says what theyre thinking and, the more outrageous he is, the more they agree with him.
We will continue to  ght with the facts because the facts are on our side, he said.
Boehner talked about the need for both parties to find common ground and take steps together to help our economy grow and create jobs, which is critical to solving our debt.
The site has come at the right time for the country of five million people.
He spends large parts of his days walking in Central Park or the Battery Park in downtown Manhattan near Wall Street, talking to some of New Yorks wealthiest people.
On some sites, there was an option to click saying: Id like kids someday, but I read the persons profile and thought: You will never have time!
And 39% are connected to people they have never met.
If he does not mate soon with one of two female northern white rhinos at Ol Pejeta Conservancy in Kenya, there will be no more rhinos like them, male or female, born anywhere.
The gap in physical ability between children in the same class but born in different months was sometimes very wide.
They have got tipping right in Italy, where customers dont add a big tip but usually round up their bill so, if their meal is 19, they leave a 20 note and dont ask for change.
She now has an album and a huge hit single, Show das Poderosas, which was number one in the charts and attracted 52 million YouTube views.
A poor farmer, he grew vegetables and bought rice.
The other group did a ten-minute warm-up on the bike, then four minutes of Tabata training, four times a week  plus one 30-minute session of exercise with two minutes of Tabata.
They found that it was not his baby and not her baby.
Leicesters Museums Service is working on plans for a new visitor centre in an old school building next to the site.
But 12 of 18 men gave themselves electric shocks and six of 24 women gave themselves electric shocks.
He hates the jungle because he says it sounds like the residents arent people.
CEO Craig Anderson says: We want to help reduce traffic, help reduce our carbon footprint and encourage a healthy lifestyle.
Vallone says, I want to work but theres no work.
For the experiment, Carle had to give up his smartphone, television, refrigerator (all made in China); his glasses (Italian); his morning coffee (Guatemalan) and his favourite David Bowie music (British).
On a good night, this goes up to over 100 and, on a poor night, its around 40.
He spent two months in prison; then, they let him out on 50,000 bail.
A few weeks earlier, Riley, Dunn and another former referee, Peter Jones, went to another level-5 match to check another young referee  John Brooks.
But the same people who painted such sensitive pictures of Ice Age rhinos helped to kill them all.
The animals felt the most unhappy, on average, at 28.3 and 27.2 years old for the chimpanzees, and 35.4 years old for the orangutans.
It is a bit like a violent family.
It was Spains worst environmental disaster and the clean-up cost 90 million.
There are more southern white rhinos and black rhinos.
Smarts extraordinary journey from gang member to mentor began when he was in prison.
If you have no fresh water and it doesnt rain for a few days, so you cant collect rainwater, you will die.
Uncut campaigner Anna Walker said Weve chosen to highlight the impact of the cuts on women.
The positive side is that peoples performance, mood and health will improve.
The report was released at the start of the annual world water conference in Stockholm, Sweden, where 2,500 politicians, UN groups, non-governmental groups and researchers from 120 countries met to discuss global water supply problems.
He was known as The Beale Street Blues Boy but this was shortened to Blues Boy King and then to BB.
Bartho Boer, a spokesman for the Mayor, says that the plans are not illiberal.
Ethical hacker Typical salary: A newly quali ed hacker will usually have a minimum salary of 35,000 to 50,000.
In three years, the number of paying subscribers rose from 8 million to 28 million, according to the 2014 digital music report from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI).
The data available is extraordinary.
The Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh, the Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, Prince Harry and members of both families were delighted with the news that Her Royal Highness and her child were both doing well.
Later that day, he climbed to the summit of Everest, and reached the top in complete darkness early on Sunday.
An extra attraction is the appearance of the International Space Station.
The European Parliament have said that health warnings will cover nearly two-thirds of cigarette packs and there will be a ban on menthol cigarettes in the EU.
Shakespeare was famous in his own lifetime but there is little documentary evidence about Shakespeares life and times.
There was a big explosion and then lots of little explosions.
Life isnt fair sometimes.
The wolf, the brown bear, the lynx and the wolverine are Europes last large predator carnivores.
The anniversary of the death of the man from Stratford, the most famous and the most performed playwright in the world, will be celebrated across Britain and the world.
Communication between riders and drivers, between different vehicles and between cars and infrastructure is bringing transportation into a new era.
The magazines editor, Rachael Jolley, said: Existing copyright laws dont work in the digital age and they criminalize consumers.
But the increase in numbers of organs is still not enough.
The bacteria of Swiss cheese were found in midtown Manhattan and the  nancial district, and the bacteria used to make kimchi and sauerkraut showed up in the  nancial district and Bay Ridge.
The report from psychologists at Virginia and Harvard Universities looks at the question of why most of us  nd it so hard to do nothing.
In 2013, one of the mothers, who is 33 and unemployed, wanted her ex-partner to pay maintenance for her daughter.
Industries where employers were most likely to have at least one person on a zero-hours contract were hotels, catering and leisure (48%), education (35%) and healthcare (27%).
The device can take in enough air for two minutes of diving and takes approximately the same amount of time to re ll.
I told myself that, if I took control of a club again, Id hire a woman as my number two.
All around the subway, there were bacteria from cheeses  brie, cheddar, parmesan and the mozzarella found on New York pizza.
The results showed that a childs month of birth could make big differences to their levels of  tness, muscle strength and ability to accelerate, all of which predict how good someone is at sport.
I really need tips because I am only paid 7 an hour.
Water ice is strong enough to hold up big mountains.
We will continue to  ght with the facts because the facts are on our side, he said.
I just cant stop, she says, when she phones me a few days after the interview to read out a poem she has written about the joys of exercise.
Here, at the central African countrys  rst ice-cream shop, customers can buy ice cream in sweet cream, passion fruit, strawberry and pineapple  avours.
Ash melts in the heat of the engine, then solidifies on the rotors.
And, there have been lots of goals: 28 in the  rst eight games  almost three times as many as at the same stage in South Africa in 2010.
Worst thing about the job: You will be away from home for at least six months of the year.
This is a very big day for Wales and, most importantly, for the 226 people in Wales who are waiting for an organ transplant, said the Welsh Health Minister, Mark Drakeford.
We have heard the voice of Scotland and, now, we must hear the millions of voices of England, he said.
Work has started on designing a new tomb in Leicester Cathedral, only 100 yards from the excavation site.
It has just over 3,000 beds for visitors  Rhodes, for example, has tens of thousands of beds.
From 2006 to 2008, Duran took out 68 loans from 39 banks in Spain.
The Reaper drone, for example, has one failure in 10,000 hours, Singh said.
A more open and connected world is a better world, wrote Zuckerberg.
In 2007, 13 rhinos were killed by poachers in South Africa.
Since the 2008  nancial crisis, the gap between the rich and the poor has grown and the situation has gotten worse for the wealthy, Cockrell said.
By percentage, the most wasted food is lettuce and leafy salads  people throw away 38% (64,000 tonnes) of all they buy.
International activity has increased by 41% since December.
But Pelphrey said oxytocin might help the brain learn from social interactions; it would work best when used together with therapies that encourage people with autism to interact more socially, he said.
Mandelas 91st birthday was celebrated by the first annual Mandela Day in his honour.
Steve Deace, an Iowa conservative, said that Trumps behaviour is both a good and a bad thing.
Brazilians are usually too nice; they enjoy partying, not protesting, but something is changing, said Deli Borsari, a 53-year-old yoga teacher.
The researchers used underwater microphones to measure the noise made by about 1,600 ships as they passed through Haro Strait, in Washington State, USA.
Industries where employers were most likely to have at least one person on a zero-hours contract were hotels, catering and leisure (48%), education (35%) and healthcare (27%).
Alexs vision, energy and ability have built teams that are some of the best and most loyal in world sport.
Martha Wood lives beside a loud bar that has live music.
I really want to prevent other people being injured.
Since then, the only security problem has been petty theft and overexcited fans.
The Scottish government also supports the idea.
Kelley says that synchronized hours could have many positive effects.
But the challenge continues to grow.
Delacourt is one of Frances best-loved authors; his last novel, My List of Desires, was translated into 47 languages and they are making a  lm of it.
Without the suit, a mans blood would boil and his lungs would explode.
said Consuelo Melis, who works in a local cafe.
The National Theatre, the Royal Shakespeare Company and almost every other theatre production company in the country will celebrate the anniversary.
Amazon has applied for many new domains, including .shop, .song, .book and .kindle.
They were mental health problems, such as anxiety and depression, disorders, such as arthritis and lower back pain, anaemia, sight and hearing loss and skin disease.
That way, the mice associated fear of the electric shock with the memory of the first box.
Steck was planning to climb Everests west ridge and then immediately climb Lhotse via a new route without fixed ropes.
The only rules were that they had to stay sitting and not fall asleep.
The books have celebrity fans like Zooey Deschanel, who shared a link about the book with her Facebook followers, and the South Korean pop star Kim Ki-Bum, who posted an image on Instagram for his 1.6 million followers.
More than 100,000 square metres of glass were broken and 3,000 buildings were hit.
The NSA access is part of a program called PRISM, which allows the government to collect search history, the content of emails, file transfers, live chats and more, the document says.
And with no friends to follow online, he has to pick up the phone and call them, something he now enjoys.
Only four out of McDonalds 14,000 US restaurants have tested build your own burger, he said.
He told The Guardian that the applicants so far were aged 18 to at least 62 and, although they include women, they were mostly men.
She listened quietly as Ban Ki-moon, the UN secretary-general, described her as our hero, our champion; and as the ex-British prime minister and now UN education envoy, Gordon Brown, said the words the Taliban never wanted her to hear: happy 16th birthday, Malala.
But, now, for children aged 12 to 15, phone calls make up just 3% of time spent communicating through any device.
The managers should have ways to pay for broken glasses and plates without taking our tips.
And I thought: You shouldnt be ashamed of this.
In many ways, it is the differences between countries that are the most interesting and important aspects of the study.
Leifert and his colleagues conclude that many antioxidants reduce the risk of serious diseases, including diseases of the heart and certain cancers.
Kcho pays $900 a month to provide the free wi-fi.
It has just over 3,000 beds for visitors  Rhodes, for example, has tens of thousands of beds.
Alexs vision, energy and ability have built teams that are some of the best and most loyal in world sport.
And, they have been surprised that many bars do not have big screens for the games.
Conservationists say there is no evidence the cull will reduce the number of shark attacks on humans, because no other cull has only used drumlines.
Redmond says the mouthpiece feels similar to a snorkel.
Because octopuses have no bones, they can fit into very small spaces and can squeeze through gaps the size of coins.
Turner was born in 1775 in London, the son of a barber, and he went to the Royal Academy Schools at the age of 14.
The biggest change is in time spent talking on the phone.
Browning said: This research supports what people think about organic food.
Theres a lot of wealth here but almost all of that wealth is in second homes only used in the summer, says Cantwell, the son of a  sherman father and a house-cleaner mother.
Here, at the central African countrys  rst ice-cream shop, customers can buy ice cream in sweet cream, passion fruit, strawberry and pineapple  avours.
Apple, and the record industry, cannot afford to get rid of the download market yet  so streaming and downloading will have to coexist under the Apple brand.
And, yes, he says he  nds the start of his working day much easier now than when he was younger.
There will also be hundreds of lectures, international conferences,  lms, concerts, operas and major exhibitions.
It took us about a week to really understand each other, Axani said.
The data available is extraordinary.
In Nepal, kings used to stand on tiger skins for special occasions.
According to the IEAs Medium-Term Coal Market Report, the world will burn 1.2bn more tonnes of coal per year by 2017 compared with today.
Part of the reason for this is simply that air travel is dangerous so standards are much higher.
Each word is represented by more than one spot because words often have many meanings.
We want everyone to be who he and she is  whether they are gay and lesbian or try to stop violence and are then victims of harassment.
Gym fans can benefit by doing three strength sessions and three Tabatas a week.
Researchers from Stirling University have begun a study to look for evidence of the physical, cognitive and emotional bene ts of the daily mile.
Lamborghinis Chief Executive, Stephan Winkelmann, said, in 2013, that the traffic and roads in India are not so suitable for the $450,000 sports cars.
The age of the big British summer music festival, including Glastonbury, is ending, according to the top rock manager Harvey Goldsmith.
About 22% of Japanese work more than 49 hours a week, compared with 16% of US workers and 11% in France and Germany, according to data from the Japanese government.
Theres a big difference between sharing information through the senses and being able to plan.
My goal is to bring together people who really want a family and a partner  and wholl stay together.
Some ships are quieter than others but the average noise next to all the ships was 173 underwater decibels, the same as 111 decibels through the air  about the sound of a loud rock concert.
If he does not mate soon with one of two female northern white rhinos at Ol Pejeta Conservancy in Kenya, there will be no more rhinos like them, male or female, born anywhere.
It is a beer brewed by women that anyone can drink, she says.
Schools should teach navigation and map reading, he wrote.
Days later, Blatter won a fifth term as president but then agreed to leave his job as the crisis grew.
This guy was darker than any modern European, but we dont know how dark, the scientist said.
We will take care of them so the whole situation is not going to repeat at the new house they are in, says Boer.
The real challenge is to allow those countries not just to study MOOCs, but also to create them.
In fact, he earned just 10 from the patent and has not made any money from it since.
He recently lost his job because of ill health and has to look after his  ve grandchildren after the death of his daughters.
In the US, the share of national income that goes to the top 1% of people has doubled since 1980 from 10% to 20%, the report says.
One hundred years ago, Venice  one of the most beautiful and low-lying cities in the world  used to  ood about ten times a year.
La premiere chose quon regarde (The First Thing We Look At) by Gregoire Delacourt is the story of a French model who looks so similar to the American actor that the books main male character thinks she is Johansson.
Weather disasters are also more likely in a warmer world, the report says.
For Danae Ringelmann, who started Indiegogo, the gravity light is a perfect example of how crowdfunding can work and how it can test an entrepreneurs idea.
The  ndings seem to show that children born in the early months of the school year enjoy a double autumn advantage  we already know that they have an academic advantage and, now, they also seem to be better at sport, too.
They are more popular than nicotine patches but we do not know if they are more effective.
It is also possible that Inky escaped through an open pipe at the top of his tank, which led under the floor to the drain.
It doesnt mean we see them the same way.
The last few weeks have been madness, but fantastic madness, said Eleanor Blatherwick, head of sales and marketing at the books publisher, Laurence King.
Thats 65 litres of clean, drinkable water that we  ll with soap and wash down the drain each and every day  sometimes more than once.
Until now, the differences between commercial, governmental and other types of identity were easy to see in every internet address by the use of .com, .gov and 20 other categories.
Born with the name Rolihlahla Dalibhunga in a small village in the Eastern Cape on 18 July, 1918, a teacher at Mandelas school gave him his English name, Nelson.
Since then, the only security problem has been petty theft and overexcited fans.
We did it the usual way, lifting the arms, legs and skull first, and then we lifted the torso  so it was only when we finally saw the twisted spine that I thought: My word, I think weve found him.
When they didnt have death registries or medical records they decided the cause of death by an interview with the family  called a verbal autopsy.
There will be performances of Macbeth in Singapore and Romeo and Juliet in Brussels.
You have 20kg to 50kg of gear with you  you cant just walk on the beach and decide you want to go in.
And, each single word appears in many different brain spots.
If you have a vehicle that can go into a neighbourhood, it can deliver from that vehicle.
Ethiopia is one of the worlds poorest countries, well known for its difficult food situation.
Even the contacts and calendar sharing that BBM made possible on BlackBerry phones are not on the Apple and Android versions.
From all across Rwanda, and even from Burundi, people are coming to the southern town of Butare to a little shop called Inzozi Nziza (Sweet Dreams).
For example, it would make life difficult, if not impossible, in much of the tropics and it would guarantee the eventual melting of the Greenland ice sheet and some of the Antarctic ice sheet.
Eventually he was arrested for serious drug crimes and was sent to prison for 12 years.
Almost 60 years since Ray Kroc opened his  rst restaurant in Des Plaines, Illinois, consumers are losing their appetite for a Big Mac and fries.
The wolf, the brown bear, the lynx and the wolverine are Europes last large predator carnivores.
In the beginning, when there started to be explosions, I used to have nightmares, she said.
They collected more than 25,000 kilos of dead  sh afterwards and nearly 2,000 adult birds, chicks, eggs and nests were killed or destroyed.
And, yes, he says he  nds the start of his working day much easier now than when he was younger.
Fish farming is absolutely possible in Africa, said Paul White, owner of a fish farm in Ivory Coast, which produces 3,000 tonnes of fish each year.
But 12 of 18 men gave themselves electric shocks and six of 24 women gave themselves electric shocks.
Pub group J D Wetherspoon has 24,000 of its staff  80% of its workforce  on zero-hours contracts.
The other group did a ten-minute warm-up on the bike, then four minutes of Tabata training, four times a week  plus one 30-minute session of exercise with two minutes of Tabata.
The managers should have ways to pay for broken glasses and plates without taking our tips.
Youre advertising a problem that doesnt exist in a big way and youre going to stop people from wanting to come to Perth and your beautiful countryside around it.
There is the feeling that they have to hide that they are rich.
Apple is good at making products go mainstream but its not that good.
Because of their hard work, many of the 1.5 million tourists who visit Northumberland each year are now aware of its Dark Sky status.
When they are  nished, the four plants at Ouarzazate will be as big as Moroccos capital city, Rabat, and make 580 mega-watts of electricity, enough for a million homes.
Born on one of Cubas islands, he is known for contemporary art with rustic, seaside and patriotic themes and imagery.
There is little work here, said Alessandro Macis.
People here pay very low rents and have very high incomes but, in future, this will change says Lindstedt.
Hearing a salmons click is probably one of the most dif cult things a killer whale does.
He recently lost his job because of ill health and has to look after his  ve grandchildren after the death of his daughters.
Buildings warm up in different ways.
A spokesman for the Accord said negotiations over payments and even legal action would not delay its work to improve safety in factories.
Singh, a 42-year-old salesman, and his friends are not alone.
Its inventors, Bob Gable and his brother Kirkland, were later horrifi ed that the tag became a form of control and punishment.
The foods most often found in British bins are bread, vegetables, fruit and milk.
He spends his spare moments at work reading news articles and books.
You also need to have strong personal ethics and to understand the law.
Its much more complex, says Benedict Evans, a digital media specialist.
Some Americans keep their wealth secret.
Axani became famous in 2014 when he offered an air ticket to any Canadian named Elizabeth Gallagher.
Allowing private companies to register geographical names as gTLDs to profit from the meaning of these names is not, in our view, in the public interest, the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology said.
We need to know what characteristics this shopper has and that, when those characteristics are present, this is what a person usually does.
If I just showed you a photo of someones body, you could probably tell me what gender they are.
Bowie performed at the Concert for New York City in October 2001, where he joined Paul McCartney, Jon Bon Jovi, Billy Joel, the Who and Elton John in a benefit show six weeks after the 9/11 attacks.
Theres less water for agriculture and less water for all the new lodges that they are building.
Bacteria that cause diarrhoea and nausea, as well as E.coli, and the bacteria that can cause skin infections and urinary-tract infections were common all over the city.
Americans think that 33% of their population are immigrants but it is really only 14%.
But now Brazil once again has problems, with a constant rise in prices, so people are finally reacting.
Jenny Flahaut, 33, who works at a childrens home, volunteered when she saw an advertisement on Facebook.
The same region responds to killed and murdered.
Whales are not usually right next to ships and so would hear noise of about 60 to 90 decibels  around the level of a vacuum cleaner.
In China, the top 10% now earn nearly 60% of the income.
If a woman comes back several times with injuries she doesnt mention, you should ask her about domestic violence, said Garcia-Moreno.
Tom, Manchester: A big night of tips can help pay the rent Average tips: 40 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... Italy  Where I used to work, waiters kept 80% of cash tips and 40% of card tips.
A small cultural centre in the capital city, Havana, has suddenly become a rare source of free wi-fi.
We will never forget what he has done for this club and for the game in general.
There will also be hundreds of lectures, international conferences,  lms, concerts, operas and major exhibitions.
But Douville feels the ban could be a great business opportunity.
But its a bit late for that and much too silly, said Cardew.
We can have clean air without noise problems  I think its about communication and creating partnerships between the communities and the businesses.
He once explained that his guitar technique was partly the result of his lack of skill: I started to bend notes because I could never play in the bottleneck style.
For all adults, this rises to 20% and, for young adults, it is 9%.
There were about 900 music festivals in the UK between May and September in 2014, he said, and they cannot all continue.
Our customers are still very happy with the product and technology is improving their experience and helping them to switch from traditional cigarettes.
Lovemore, from Zimbabwe, is now one of the poorest people in his village.
Most noise is at that low frequency but there is more background noise in the high frequencies, too.
Martha Wood lives beside a loud bar that has live music.
This tells us that we could create a network of animal brains, with the animals in many different locations.
I couldnt ban smoking in my bar without a ban in the whole city, says Douville.
In the Philippines, the educational reforms introduced after independence in 1946 have helped older people  elementary and high school education became compulsory.
Smokers are the key group for e-cigarette companies because seven out of ten vapers are smokers.
People present perfect versions of themselves online and we expect to have social lives like the lives we see in the media, says Challis.
They found that it was not his baby and not her baby.
This includes about 45% of all fruit and vegetables, 35% of  sh and seafood, 30% of cereals, 20% of dairy products and 20% of meat.
Violence has a big effect on womens health.
The results of the research are based on an analysis of 343 studies from around the world  more than ever before  which examine differences between organic and regular fruit, vegetables and cereals.
Pullman, writer of the His Dark Materials trilogy, says authors and musicians work in poverty for years to bring their work to the level that gives happiness to their audiences and, when they achieve that, the possibility of making money from it is taken away from them.
Argentina rejects the .patagonia request for a new generic top-level domain.
Our customers are still very happy with the product and technology is improving their experience and helping them to switch from traditional cigarettes.
McKinlay believes humans must still able to take control of their navigation.
But Douville feels the ban could be a great business opportunity.
And with no friends to follow online, he has to pick up the phone and call them, something he now enjoys.
For Danae Ringelmann, who started Indiegogo, the gravity light is a perfect example of how crowdfunding can work and how it can test an entrepreneurs idea.
I thought she might send me  owers because the book was a declaration of love for her, but she didnt understand, Delacourt said.
Dgg, Dimmbl, Etna and Eybjrt are fine and so are Frigg, Glds, Hrn and Ingunn.
Youve got to remember that this used to be a farming and  shing community  a real working-class community.
But now Brazil once again has problems, with a constant rise in prices, so people are finally reacting.
Maybe GPS signals will be blocked so its going to have an incorrect idea about where it is.
Just in Stirling, 30 schools have already started or are going to start the daily mile.
We have shown we are ready to take action to increase organ donation and to give hope to those people who wait every week for a transplant.
Almost 6,000 people have signed Unites online petition.
Argentina is unhappy that the US outdoor clothing retailer, Patagonia, wants a domain name that has been known far longer as a region of spectacular beauty.
It is legal to grow coca leaves in Bolivia.
Riley, as a young referee, bought himself books on psychology and nutrition because there was no information on offer to him at all.
The main aim of the 11,000km trip was to deliver a special message to the World Parks Congress.
The poll shows that 17% of employers in the private sector use zero-hours contracts, lower than the 34% of organizations in the voluntary sector and 24% in the public sector.
His classmates post about parties and events on Facebook but they send him a text message, too, he said.
There will be performances of Macbeth in Singapore and Romeo and Juliet in Brussels.
But ... well, it feels nice, standing here.
The days are long, but we can do it.
The magazines editor, Rachael Jolley, said: Existing copyright laws dont work in the digital age and they criminalize consumers.
Speaking at the same meeting, Derrick Taff, a social scientist at Pennsylvania State University, said that listening to recordings from national parks, of waterfalls, birdsong and wind, helped people feel less stressed.
"So, with no big bands to headline, there are no big shows.
The second is education, from early childhood to the start of work, so people can escape and stay out of poverty.
If we have to pay a tax of 23%, we will all die on the island, says Kakali.
Indonesia may receive less rainfall between July and October, but the coastal regions around the south China Sea and Gulf of Thailand can expect more rainfall when cyclones hit the land.
He doesnt work for PizzaExpress but has worked for 11 years for another restaurant chain.
Much better than an egg or a sandwich or a cup of tea, said Arvind Singh at 6.15am as he did his breathing exercises.
Batteries are getting smaller, theyre getting lighter, theyre getting more reliable and they are lasting longer, says Don DiCostanza, the CEO of Pedego, an electric bikemaker and retailer.
Our clients want to know how well their stores are delivering on that experience.
Kensington Palace announced at 8.30pm that the baby was born at 4.24pm at St Marys Hospital, Paddington, West London.
Almost 60 years since Ray Kroc opened his  rst restaurant in Des Plaines, Illinois, consumers are losing their appetite for a Big Mac and fries.
These gaps could decide who became a top-level athlete because selection into elite sports may often depend on very small differences in a persons physical performance.
There is the feeling that they have to hide that they are rich.
I said this the other day to a big fat man.
Air India, the national airline, has also said it will introduce yoga for trainee pilots.
This is now a war.
We remain more than a collection of red states and blue states.
In February, reports say that 80 people, including schoolchildren, died near the ruling Baath Party headquarters in Mazraa.
The rest of their viewing time is spent watching DVDs, streamed content through Net ix or iTunes and recorded television programmes.
Suneel Singh, a guru in south Delhi, said that yoga does not just belong to one religion: Is tai chi just Chinese?
Faehrmann said the protests showed that Australians wanted sharks to be protected: Whats amazing is that so many people in Australia love sharks.
He also mentioned the earlier blues guitarists Blind Lemon Jefferson and Lonnie Johnson and the jazz players Charlie Christian and Django Reinhardt.
In China, the top 10% now earn nearly 60% of the income.
Other countries, such as China and Korea, are also considering real-world emissions tests.
Its much more complex, says Benedict Evans, a digital media specialist.
There are already plans for a new shark exhibition in Orlando and an attraction in San Antonio that will allow customers to swim with dolphins.
A man came to my door and told me he had post from my grandfather.
Even Nigeria, with its oil wealth, spends only $650 per person, Shepherd said.
If  nding peace and quiet becomes too dif cult, many children will grow up without the experience and I think its a very big problem, he said.
It is legal to grow coca leaves in Bolivia.
Another factory owner said that, when a factory closed, even for a few months, it would lose orders and close permanently: There is no such thing as temporary closure, he said.
DNA tests have shown that Polish wolves are travellers.
His sons sunglasses were stolen almost as soon as he sat on the beach.
I try to help a young person who has been earning 300 a week illegally.
Pilots often have to  y next to the power line, sometimes as little as 20 feet away and just 30 feet off the ground.
There are riches here, riches that the local inhabitants badly need, said energy spokesman Vicente Fernandez Guerrero.
Pub group J D Wetherspoon has 24,000 of its staff  80% of its workforce  on zero-hours contracts.
Ice cream is important, she says between mouthfuls of honey- avoured ice cream.
How does he feel when he watches football on TV and a referee is attacked?
She talked about the attack in June on a hospital in Quetta, capital of Baluchistan, and killings of female teachers in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
He also has the support of a sports psychologist and an exercise regime to help him run 11km during a game.
Other companies using the contracts include cinema chain Cineworld and Buckingham Palace, which uses the contracts for its 350 summer workers.
He added that memory researchers have always known that memory does not work like a video camera, recording all the details of anything we experience.
They are scum houses not scum villages, says Boer, because we dont want to put more than one of these families in the same area.
The Stanford mirror re ects 97% of the visible light that falls on it.
In 1989, when the communists left power, Poland had only one motorway.
In other words, do not go trekking near the border that separates the Indian and Pakistani parts of Kashmir.
One hundred years ago, Venice  one of the most beautiful and low-lying cities in the world  used to  ood about ten times a year.
Hannah, a 41-year-old lawyer, has made nearly 500 visits for the Mystery Dining Company in her spare time without receiving pay or travel expenses.
What is it like to look at the last of something?
Nearly 80% of young smartphone owners regularly use a social networking application but two-thirds use more than one.
We know sitting still kills; not sitting still helps children build skills that will help them for the rest of their lives.
In my job, I spend a lot of time listening to peoples lives all day, every day and it started to feel too much to go on social media and see every detail of everybodys lives, including people that I dont know very well, she said.
But, authorities suspected he was not paying taxes on the clothes, furniture and other goods he was bringing in from China.
According to the IUCN, in 2013, less than three per cent of the worlds oceans was in marine protected areas and less than one per cent of that is no take (no  shing).
The Mesolithic man, who lived in Spain about 7,000 years ago, had an unusual mix of blue eyes, black or brown hair and dark skin.
If we reduced the amount of food we wasted around the world by just 25%, there would be enough food to feed all the hungry people in the world.
It was done to remove criticism of the police, the report said.
It is harder to hear that click if theres a lot of noise around you.
We need new ideas for how artists, writers and musicians can earn a living from their work.
The owners need to tell them to go and have a smoke but be respectful to their communities.
Its not pleasant, Kirkland Gable said in 2010, but Im not in control of the universe.
You could use the mirrors on buildings and spend much less money on air conditioning or maybe you wouldnt need it at all.
I work hard and am good at my job but, when PizzaExpress thinks it can take a percentage of our tips, I get upset.
Some danced, some took photos, some drank, but mostly they just walked and talked about football, waiting for the next game to begin on the big screen nearby.
In Britain, people think that 43% of young adults aged 25-34 still live at home with their parents, rather than the actual 14%.
Thats his personality.
The northern white rhino is the rarest kind of African rhino.
In 2009, Italys central bank said that mafia money launderers and terrorists used the notes.
It is an important moment in the life of our nation but, above all, it is a wonderful moment for a warm and loving couple who have got a brand new baby boy.
Housing is the biggest cost in the Hamptons.
The Globo newspaper listed a number of problems in the 12 host cities.
To succeed as a race engineer, you need ... to be able to work under pressure.
I saw this film about fish in a cement pool and I thought it was a good idea, said Chon, who is also HIV positive.
For the past ten years, the US National Park Service has recorded sound levels at more than 600 parks in the US, including Yosemite in California, Yellowstone and Denali in Alaska.
There will be performances of Macbeth in Singapore and Romeo and Juliet in Brussels.
But we are disappointed with the decision not to regulate nicotine-containing products (NCPs), including e-cigarettes, as medicines.
The Spanish team started their work after a group of cave explorers found two skeletons in a deep cave high up in the Cantabrian Mountains of northwest Spain in 2006.
Maybe GPS signals will be blocked so its going to have an incorrect idea about where it is.
So, just like our mouse, it is quite possible we can associate what we have in our mind with bad or good events.
Alexs vision, energy and ability have built teams that are some of the best and most loyal in world sport.
She  nds it satisfying to return to a store where she has previously been a mystery shopper and see standards have improved.
We didnt expect it but, suddenly, the donations just started.
Pepper spray After police sprayed peaceful protesters with pepper spray at a University of California campus in 2011, Kamran Loghman, one of the scientists who helped develop the spray in the 80s said, I have never seen such an inappropriate use of chemicals.
Each person heard about 25,000 words  and more than 3,000 different words  as they lay in the scanner.
McDonalds has a bigger menu than some other restaurants, with more complicated items  its chicken McWrap takes 60 seconds to make.
We will take care of them so the whole situation is not going to repeat at the new house they are in, says Boer.
German-speaking cities do well in the 18th Mercer Quality of Life study, with Vienna, Zurich, Munich, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt in the top seven.
He doesnt work for PizzaExpress but has worked for 11 years for another restaurant chain.
If I just showed you a photo of someones body, you could probably tell me what gender they are.
In the novel, the models beauty means that men see her only as a sex object and women are jealous of her.
Other breweries have already asked FemAle if they can brew new beers with them.
Each person heard about 25,000 words  and more than 3,000 different words  as they lay in the scanner.
Worst thing about the job: You will be away from home for at least six months of the year.
Tom Sanders, a professor of nutrition at Kings College London, said the research showed some differences.
He was known as The Beale Street Blues Boy but this was shortened to Blues Boy King and then to BB.
To discover the elements, researchers at the three labs crashed lighter nuclei into one another and looked for the radioactive decays that should come from the new elements.
Mystery shoppers are usually repaid any money they spend in the stores and may also be allowed to keep the products they buy.
I think it is really relaxing to unplug, said Basford.
Ed Miliband, the leader of the Labour Party, said the referendum was a vote from the Scottish people for change.
The atlas shows how words and related terms use the same regions of the brain.
It is harder to hear that click if theres a lot of noise around you.
Mys_ajek says only the need to save forests and control the wild animal population can save Europes wild carnivores, especially the unpopular wolf.
She earns around 30,000 to 40,000 a year and that doesnt include all the freebies she gets on the job.
The first team would land on Mars in 2023 to begin building the colony, and a team of four astronauts would arrive every two years after that.
Mystery shoppers are usually repaid any money they spend in the stores and may also be allowed to keep the products they buy.
In the novel, the models beauty means that men see her only as a sex object and women are jealous of her.
The anniversary of the death of the man from Stratford, the most famous and the most performed playwright in the world, will be celebrated across Britain and the world.
Working with Alex has been the greatest experience of my working life and it is a great honour to be able to call him a friend.
Worst thing about the job: You will be away from home for at least six months of the year.
Its crazy to have a sale at midnight  the police have more important things to do at night than come to sales.
One initiative, Facebook Home, is software that you can download onto Android phones to feed news and photos from friends  and advertising  directly to your home screen.
Each word is represented by more than one spot because words often have many meanings.
We allow this to happen online so why not in shops?
Coldplay is probably the last one and that was ten years ago.
According to recent research, loneliness is killing the elderly and, with an ageing population, we should try to reduce our isolation before it is too late.
Companies dont want to pay so that rich factory owners can continue to just take the profits and not spend on their factories for years.
They spend 20% of their time watching short video clips, for example on YouTube, or news clips on Facebook and other social sites.
Oxfam said the world could end poverty several times over if the richest 100 billionaires would give away the money they made in 2012.
The reoffending rate in Sweden is between 30 and 40%  to compare that with another European country, the number is around half that of the UK.
There is currently 150 million tonnes of plastic rubbish around the planet and oceans, poisoning ecosystems and killing wildlife.
Brazilians are usually too nice; they enjoy partying, not protesting, but something is changing, said Deli Borsari, a 53-year-old yoga teacher.
He has won 13 Premier League titles, two Champions Leagues, the Cup Winners Cup, five FA Cups and four League Cups.
When you enter a department store, cameras are watching you.
Schools should teach navigation and map reading, he wrote.
The problem is that, in the US and UK, most people who want to join Facebook have already done it, said new media specialist Ian Maude at Enders Analysis.
Between November 2012 and January 2013 in the UK, 280 million music tracks were digitally pirated along with 52 million TV shows, 29 million films,18 million ebooks and 7 million software or games files.
Ninety-one per cent post a photo of themselves, 71% post the city or town where they live, more than half give email addresses and a  fth give their phone number.
Another problem is that McDonalds hamburgers were recently named the worst in America in a poll of more than 32,000 American diners  they said they would rather eat a burger at Five Guys, Smashburger or Fuddruckers.
And climate change is already having a serious effect on Paci c Islanders.
Basically there will be no such thing as the perfect murder any more because a virtual autopsy allows you to find every piece of evidence, he said.
The foods most often found in British bins are bread, vegetables, fruit and milk.
Coldplay is probably the last one and that was ten years ago.
Clears houses full of rubbish, rats and excrement  and other things, too.
He spends large parts of his days walking in Central Park or the Battery Park in downtown Manhattan near Wall Street, talking to some of New Yorks wealthiest people.
Theres no reason why we cant have a similar return of wildlife in the UK.
The general public and many academics have underestimated the importance of Stratford to Shakespeare.
Cafe_ Rouge, Bella Italia and Belgo deduct 10%; Strada and Giraffe do, too.
Researchers from Stirling University have begun a study to look for evidence of the physical, cognitive and emotional bene ts of the daily mile.
The number of people who use e-cigarettes while continuing to smoke is going down, West said.
The thought of children across the country running every day because of something weve done is amazing.
The new home is likely to have a hot tub, with almost a third (29%) putting that on their shopping list.
But we are finding that the mistakes are being made by the models that predict less warming, not the models that predict more warming.
Relatives will have a clear right of objection, which will give them the chance to show that their relative did not want to be an organ donor.
We know that loneliness is a problem for the elderly and there are day centres and charities to help them, says Sam Challis, of the mental health charity Mind, but, young people over 21 are too old for youth services.
Tom Sanders, a professor of nutrition at Kings College London, said the research showed some differences.
Conservationists say there is no evidence the cull will reduce the number of shark attacks on humans, because no other cull has only used drumlines.
Quali cations: You dont need a degree in computer science.
Youve got to remember that this used to be a farming and  shing community  a real working-class community.
You need a 15-minute distance, and typical drones have about that distance.
Illegal downloading is morally wrong, and it is theft, the same as putting your hand in someones pocket and stealing their wallet is theft, says author Philip Pullman.
In London, they are also creating a 37-screen pop-up cinema, one screen to show each of Shakespeares plays.
She now has an album and a huge hit single, Show das Poderosas, which was number one in the charts and attracted 52 million YouTube views.
I really need tips because I am only paid 7 an hour.
Theyre common in the Netherlands and Switzerland; German postal workers use them and BMW sells one for about $3,000.
Three poorer districts have only 12% of Limas population but they have much more illegal rubbish than other neighbourhoods: Villa Maria del Triunfo (39.4%), Villa El Salvador (25.3%) and El Agustino (18.3%).
said Consuelo Melis, who works in a local cafe.
It was important to me to leave an organization in the strongest possible condition and I believe I have done so.
I felt that people were looking at me in the wrong way, I began to have problems with loud noises and I suffered from memory loss.
The number of minutes Americans spend on Facebook is falling, too.
Now, millions of other people love it.
We want everyone to be who he and she is  whether they are gay and lesbian or try to stop violence and are then victims of harassment.
Quali cations: A private-helicopter-pilot licence, a commercial pilots licence and around 2,000 hours of experience  ying at low levels.
Apple, and the record industry, cannot afford to get rid of the download market yet  so streaming and downloading will have to coexist under the Apple brand.
A later start to the day for many, says Kelley, is something that would bene t all people, particularly families.
The charity National Trust, which employs many of its seasonal workers on zero-hours contracts, said it gives the same pay and bene ts to workers on zero-hours contracts as to full-time staff.
In 6- to 7-year-olds, who have grown up with YouTube, Spotify music streaming and online television, the average DQ score was 98.
The shop can certainly make dreams come true.
The age of the big British summer music festival, including Glastonbury, is ending, according to the top rock manager Harvey Goldsmith.
Steck was planning to climb Everests west ridge and then immediately climb Lhotse via a new route without fixed ropes.
Most of them did not enjoy the experience.
Strydom added: Whatever happens, someone wont be happy.
La premiere chose quon regarde (The First Thing We Look At) by Gregoire Delacourt is the story of a French model who looks so similar to the American actor that the books main male character thinks she is Johansson.
Another problem is that McDonalds hamburgers were recently named the worst in America in a poll of more than 32,000 American diners  they said they would rather eat a burger at Five Guys, Smashburger or Fuddruckers.
Ten days later, on 5 September, when more excavation proved Morris had found the right place, he returned with Lin Foxhall, head of the archaeology department, to excavate the body.
Theyve not been a part of this for the last 18 years.
But things change very quickly.
In restaurants, because a lot of customers add tips by card, the staff never see how much the tip is  so we dont know if what we get is fair or not.
But Piscedda says, The work I can create, as mayor, is temporary.
By 14, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, suggested her for the International Childrens Peace Prize, and, by 15, she became the youngest Nobel Peace Prize nominee in history.
Many of the very wealthy  the 1% of the 1%  feel that their problems are really not problems.
He warned that the false memories created in the mice in the experiments were far simpler than the complex false memories people have, such as false memories of childhood sexual abuse, abduction by aliens, or past lives.
Only four out of McDonalds 14,000 US restaurants have tested build your own burger, he said.
He has won 13 Premier League titles, two Champions Leagues, the Cup Winners Cup, five FA Cups and four League Cups.
You dont realize how safe Vienna is until you go abroad, said Hartlauer.
Since the economic crisis began in 2009, Kethea has lost 70 of its 500 staff.
This includes about 45% of all fruit and vegetables, 35% of  sh and seafood, 30% of cereals, 20% of dairy products and 20% of meat.
Some are survivors of the 1994 genocide, when almost a million Tutsis and Hutus were killed.
In Northumberland Dark Sky Park, it is so dark that Venus casts a shadow on the Earth.
All-body suits are expensive  they cost about 30,000  and they can be uncomfortable, so Anderson and his colleagues are now looking at cheaper alternatives.
In recent years, much of the community has chosen to follow the Ramadan timetable of Edmonton, in Alberta.
We need better roads, reliable electricity.
In my early years, the support of the board of directors gave me the confidence and time to build a football club, not just a football team.
Webb and the Colombian former executive Luis Bedoya entered guilty pleas in the US.
On a canoe, you are not just going from one place to another using the stars, the moon, the sun and the birds.
Other companies using the contracts include cinema chain Cineworld and Buckingham Palace, which uses the contracts for its 350 summer workers.
Humans, said TV naturalist Sir David Attenborough in 2013, are a plague on earth.
She wants the baby back, but its four years later: you can understand that the other mother doesnt want to give up her baby, Strydom said.
Noma has been named the best restaurant in the world by Restaurant magazine for three years.
There are famous and very wealthy people but also hard-working and poor people.
Prices have gone up but they havent gone up as quickly as the rest of the fast-food chains in the US.
Lauren Raskauskas, 22, Naples, Florida Raskauskas describes herself as a private person.
The industry accepts people with a very wide range of quali cations and skills.
Most will be more than happy to have them in the family home rent-free because it might help their kids get on the property ladder sooner, she said.
To be able to dispose of the bombs safely, youll also need a special quali cation and years of experience.
asked Cool to look forward and imagine what top climbers might do 60 years from now.
The fish farm gives these people with HIV a way of getting back into society  now they are buying and selling with people in the market every week.
The biggest change is in time spent talking on the phone.
Later that day, he climbed to the summit of Everest, and reached the top in complete darkness early on Sunday.
One big problem is keeping radio contact with a drone and planning for what happens if that contact breaks.
In 2014, 1,215 rhinos were killed for their horns in South Africa.
Lauren Raskauskas, 22, Naples, Florida Raskauskas describes herself as a private person.
There will no doubt be other theories in future days and weeks, just as there were following the death of Pope John Paul I in 1978, 33 days after his election.
For the album Black Tie White Noise (1993), he included elements of soul and hip hop.
From all across Rwanda, and even from Burundi, people are coming to the southern town of Butare to a little shop called Inzozi Nziza (Sweet Dreams).
If it sounds familiar, its because the internet has been using techniques like these for years.
Karabo Ngidi, a lawyer with the centre, said: We must do what is best for the children.
He gets what all referees want every time they referee a match.
Without them, the history of this great club would not be as rich.
On the dry grass not far from the India Gate monument at the centre of Delhi, they stretch, breathe and meditate.
Holger von Neuhoff, a curator at the museum, said this bottled message was the oldest he had ever seen.
They have got tipping right in Italy, where customers dont add a big tip but usually round up their bill so, if their meal is 19, they leave a 20 note and dont ask for change.
Its really unfair that money from our tips is taken for breakages by customers.
In the daytime, from late September to mid-March, the town, three hours north-west of Oslo, is not completely dark, but its certainly not bright.
They spend 20% of their time watching short video clips, for example on YouTube, or news clips on Facebook and other social sites.
The researchers used underwater microphones to measure the noise made by about 1,600 ships as they passed through Haro Strait, in Washington State, USA.
And, then, there is the isolation  being in the 1% can be lonely.
At least, it doesnt if youre doing it on land.
When the mirror is warmed up, it releases heat at a speci c wavelength of infrared light that goes easily through the atmosphere and out into space.
Most people use it to get fit or to get even fitter, but the programme also burns fat.
Someone snatched my telly from me  its because Im the smaller one.
The European Parliament have said that health warnings will cover nearly two-thirds of cigarette packs and there will be a ban on menthol cigarettes in the EU.
On a good night, this goes up to over 100 and, on a poor night, its around 40.
The town is here because of the mine, says Deputy Mayor Niklas Siren.
When they are not using their phones, 12- to 15-year-olds have a very different relationship with other media, too.
A little later, the football club secretary arrived to pay the officials for their time  the match fee at level 5 is 95 so it is clear that these men do not do it for the money.
The worst transport problems were in Natal, where bus drivers were on strike.
At one time, Allens class had more than 18 regulars, each paying 1 a time.
Rodri, 37, London: Around 50% of a waiters income is tips Average tips: 60 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... the US  Everything has got fairer since the tipping scandal in the summer of 2015.
It is a majestic rectangle of strong bone, a head of pure strength.
One of them is for numbers and measurements, another for buildings and places.
All were tested between 2007 and 2010 on three different things: stamina, handgrip strength and lower-body power.
The Spanish team compared the hunter-gatherer to modern Europeans from different regions to see how they might be related.
Bartho Boer, a spokesman for the Mayor, says that the plans are not illiberal.
His eye is a sad black dot in his big face as he walks around the reserve with his guards.
Its hard to say how much I earn in a shift; maybe about 40.
The worst case is Saudi Arabia, where people think only 28% are overweight, when 71% are.
Dave Prentis, of the trade union Unison, said: The majority of workers are only on these contracts because they have no choice.
The two-year study recorded the sound made by 12 different types of ship, including cruise ships, container ships and military ships, that passed through the strait about 20 times a day.
And 39% are connected to people they have never met.
The right of indigenous people in South 6 Americas Andean region to chew coca leaf was removed in 1964 when Bolivia was under a dictatorship and it signed the convention.
The company, Mars One, plans to send four astronauts to the Red Planet to build a human colony in 2023.
Teffs tiny seeds  the size of poppy seeds  are high in calcium, iron and protein, and also amino acids.
Can we create false memories?
In restaurants, because a lot of customers add tips by card, the staff never see how much the tip is  so we dont know if what we get is fair or not.
The yes campaign had four big successes  it won 53% of the vote in Scotlands largest city, Glasgow, 57% in Dundee and 51% in North Lanarkshire.
Our customers are still very happy with the product and technology is improving their experience and helping them to switch from traditional cigarettes.
Redmond says the mouthpiece feels similar to a snorkel.
But, now, for children aged 12 to 15, phone calls make up just 3% of time spent communicating through any device.
Most of our customers are baby boomers who want to have the cycling experience they had as a kid, says Pedegos Don DiCostanza.
You see a lot of pictures of these people hunting and gathering and they look like modern Europeans with light skin.
He spent two months in prison; then, they let him out on 50,000 bail.
Neil Timms owns an English pub and saw a smoking ban before, in England.
The most important thing is that the children really enjoy it.
There must be something wrong with this country, said Nadia al Husin.
Rob Yarrell, national manager of the National Aquarium of New Zealand in Napier, said: Octopuses are famous for their ability to escape.
Oxfam said the world could end poverty several times over if the richest 100 billionaires would give away the money they made in 2012.
But we are disappointed with the decision not to regulate nicotine-containing products (NCPs), including e-cigarettes, as medicines.
Robert Mys_ajek stops.
My goal is to bring together people who really want a family and a partner  and wholl stay together.
Ramadan will then fall during winter and, in Iqaluit, the sun will rise and set within a few hours each day.
To see what driverless cars might look like on the road, go to the video at: vimeo.com/37751380.
When you breathe in, youre pulling the muscle of your diaphragm  at so that the volume of your chest increases  this pulls the air into your lungs.
He says that he hasnt seen any effect at this point.
But it also found that 30% are not saving any money.
Elle, 22, Edinburgh: We never know whether its fair Average tips: 20 per eight-hour shift I think they treat waiters best in ... France  I have three part-time jobs.
He says, Trump says what theyre thinking and, the more outrageous he is, the more they agree with him.
Some Americans keep their wealth secret.
Researchers believe that Erdmanns grandfather, Richard Platz, threw the bottle into the sea when he was on a hike in 1913.
They tested the victims blood for alcohol.
The trip has not been without its problems.
Barack Obama flew back to Washington and his desk in the Oval Office on Wednesday, hours after he gave an election victory speech in Chicago.
The MEPs voted to put health warnings on 65% of each cigarette pack.
The campaign has a Facebook page and is supported by groups including Greenpeace and the World Wide Fund for Nature.
In the US, the share of national income that goes to the top 1% of people has doubled since 1980 from 10% to 20%, the report says.
When the Russian capsule opened, he felt the cool air of Kazakhstan and smelled a smell like a plant was blooming in that area.
We want to defend them.
It allows you to stay underwater for longer but it takes a lot of planning.
Companies are developing technology that allows a vehicle to tell traf c control systems not only that it is present but also where it is going and how fast it is travelling.
Other breweries have already asked FemAle if they can brew new beers with them.
If you had to build a visitor attraction from the beginning, what could be better than the universe?
The total was 121 billion minutes in December 2012, but that fell to 115 billion minutes in February.
She still plays the piano and gives speeches.
Google said: Google cares very much about the security of our users data.
Actor Verne Troyer used milk, also for environmental reasons.
From 2006 to 2008, Duran took out 68 loans from 39 banks in Spain.
From 2006 to 2008, Duran took out 68 loans from 39 banks in Spain.
Most noise is at that low frequency but there is more background noise in the high frequencies, too.
What is it like to look at the last of something?
These gaps could decide who became a top-level athlete because selection into elite sports may often depend on very small differences in a persons physical performance.
I decided to do this because I often go on YouTube and some people are doing it wrong because they dont understand how hard they need to work, says Tabata.
Inside one mansion, the ceiling has collapsed and water drips through a huge crystal chandelier onto a thick carpet, which is rotting.
China is the biggest coal importer, and Indonesia is the biggest coal exporter.
Riley, as a young referee, bought himself books on psychology and nutrition because there was no information on offer to him at all.
Allowing private companies to register geographical names as gTLDs to profit from the meaning of these names is not, in our view, in the public interest, the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology said.
The Mesolithic man, who lived in Spain about 7,000 years ago, had an unusual mix of blue eyes, black or brown hair and dark skin.
The situation meant the family were going to miss their holiday in France but they have applied to the British embassy for an emergency UK passport, which should now allow them to leave.
It was Spains worst environmental disaster and the clean-up cost 90 million.
Getting older doesnt have to mean getting lonelier, says Ruth Sutherland, the chief executive of the relationship counselling service Relate.
But the same people who painted such sensitive pictures of Ice Age rhinos helped to kill them all.
Members of the Muslim Council of Wales and the South Wales Jewish Representative Council are not happy, while the Archbishop of Wales, Barry Morgan, said that donation ought to be a gift of love, of generosity.
If you have a vehicle that can go into a neighbourhood, it can deliver from that vehicle.
Most of them did not enjoy the experience.
The album went to the top of the charts in Britain and around the world.
This idea comes from common sense and experience, he told the Guardian.
So, just like our mouse, it is quite possible we can associate what we have in our mind with bad or good events.
Amazon has asked for its company name to be a top-level domain name (currently .com), but the South American governments say this would stop the use of this internet address for environmental protection, indigenous rights and other public interest uses.
The northern white rhino is the rarest kind of African rhino.
You cant say to the politicians that wolves are a big tourist attraction.
McDonalds has a bigger menu than some other restaurants, with more complicated items  its chicken McWrap takes 60 seconds to make.
The worst case is Saudi Arabia, where people think only 28% are overweight, when 71% are.
In London, they are also creating a 37-screen pop-up cinema, one screen to show each of Shakespeares plays.
One weekend they created the recipe; the next weekend they brewed 1,600 litres.
I decided to do this because I often go on YouTube and some people are doing it wrong because they dont understand how hard they need to work, says Tabata.
It has just over 3,000 beds for visitors  Rhodes, for example, has tens of thousands of beds.
The numbers, released by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), show that men in UK management jobs earned average bonuses of 6,442 in 2012  compared with 3,029 for women.
He says he doesnt know much about France but the classes are slowly helping him understand the country and the language.
If we want to find whats going on with the midlife crisis, we should look at what is similar in middle-aged humans, chimps and orangutans, he said.
Early on Saturday morning, he reached the summit of Nuptse, the first of the three main summits in the Everest horseshoe.
He criticizes internet users who think it is OK to download music or books without paying for them.
I dont know what training you have had, an editor shouted, but has no one ever told you a death toll cant go down?!
Over the last three years alone, our company has paid more than 160 million in various taxes, including national insurance*, VAT and business rates.
People have mined metals here since Roman times.
There are more southern white rhinos and black rhinos.
And, yes, he says he  nds the start of his working day much easier now than when he was younger.
But many of the other injuries were after death, which suggests that the kings naked body was mutilated as it was brought back to Leicester.
We need new ideas for how artists, writers and musicians can earn a living from their work.
The Reaper drone, for example, has one failure in 10,000 hours, Singh said.
This is a huge physical advantage, said Sandercock.
There are only two other northern white rhinos in the world, both in zoos, both female.
McKinlay believes humans must still able to take control of their navigation.
These gaps could decide who became a top-level athlete because selection into elite sports may often depend on very small differences in a persons physical performance.
Twelve years after he first dreamed of his Solspeil, a German company that specializes in CSP  concentrated solar power  brought in, by helicopter, the three 17-square-metre glass mirrors that are now high above the market square in Rjukan.
Every village is digging a pit for garbage.
Erdmann said she also liked culture and travelling around the world, just like her grandfather.
I dont know even know if Im going to buy it.
Conservationists say there is no evidence the cull will reduce the number of shark attacks on humans, because no other cull has only used drumlines.
He doesnt work for PizzaExpress but has worked for 11 years for another restaurant chain.
If I just showed you a photo of someones body, you could probably tell me what gender they are.
They are scum houses not scum villages, says Boer, because we dont want to put more than one of these families in the same area.
The second test involved a lost wallet with 5 inside.
5 Facebook makes news, breaks news and decides what is news About 71% of 18- to 24-year-olds and 63% of all users say they get news from the internet.
One part of the brain, for example, is used for the word top and also for other words that describe clothes.
Im always given a speci c task, such as buying something from a speci c department or a new product range, but I can often buy whatever I want  and keep it.
Its very positive because its a solution that will make people less ill, and happier and better at what they do.
In my opinion, its just a publicity stunt to get people talking about the club.
Were going to PC World in the morning  their sale starts at 8am.
The Spanish team started their work after a group of cave explorers found two skeletons in a deep cave high up in the Cantabrian Mountains of northwest Spain in 2006.
So after all these years, Goodfellow is  nally among a group of famous British inventors with John Logie Baird (the television), Alan Turing (the Turing machine), Sir Frank Whittle (the jet engine) and Sir Tim Berners-Lee (the World Wide Web).
In London, they are also creating a 37-screen pop-up cinema, one screen to show each of Shakespeares plays.
Climate sceptics like to criticize climate models because they are sometimes wrong, and we know that they are not perfect, said Sherwood.
This is a sensitive topic in this mixed-raced country.
BBM says it has 80 million monthly users after its upgrade, but WhatsApp has 300 million.
Theyve not been a part of this for the last 18 years.
Between November 2012 and January 2013 in the UK, 280 million music tracks were digitally pirated along with 52 million TV shows, 29 million films,18 million ebooks and 7 million software or games files.
When the Russian capsule opened, he felt the cool air of Kazakhstan and smelled a smell like a plant was blooming in that area.
Ninety-one per cent post a photo of themselves, 71% post the city or town where they live, more than half give email addresses and a  fth give their phone number.
If you are getting information from the cloud and social networks, that will happen more easily.
Mitchell revealed only the name of the manuscript, From Me Flows What You Call Time, during a ceremony in the Norwegian woods next to where the 1,000 trees are planted.
BBM says it has 80 million monthly users after its upgrade, but WhatsApp has 300 million.
Only drivers with official permission can use special fast lanes to avoid the wait.
IUPAC said that a Russian-American team of scientists at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California had discovered elements 115, 117 and 118.
He was married three times and he had six children, 17 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
Vienna is the worlds best city to live in, Baghdad is the worst and London, Paris and New York are not in the top 35, says an international study on quality of life.
To succeed as a bomb-disposal diver, you need ... to be calm in stressful situations.
I thought she might send me  owers because the book was a declaration of love for her, but she didnt understand, Delacourt said.
Smoking levels in England are at their lowest since records began  19.5 per cent  but we want to reduce the numbers of people smoking even more and believe this important step will help.
The IEA says that China and India will drive world coal use in the next five years, and India will probably overtake the US as the worlds second biggest consumer.
On some sites, there was an option to click saying: Id like kids someday, but I read the persons profile and thought: You will never have time!
While I was working as a reporter, I found out that I was bad at understanding numbers in Spanish.
There must be something wrong with this country, said Nadia al Husin.
Gym fans can benefit by doing three strength sessions and three Tabatas a week.
The report from psychologists at Virginia and Harvard Universities looks at the question of why most of us  nd it so hard to do nothing.
And, then, there is the isolation  being in the 1% can be lonely.
Female directors received bonuses of 36,270 over the past 12 months, compared with 63,700 received by male directors.
In 6- to 7-year-olds, who have grown up with YouTube, Spotify music streaming and online television, the average DQ score was 98.
And climate change is already having a serious effect on Paci c Islanders.
In Elmas, the scheme has got mixed reactions.
A few days after he performed at the Freddie Mercury tribute concert at Wembley Stadium in April 1992, Bowie married the Somalian model Iman and bought a home in New York.
The rest of their viewing time is spent watching DVDs, streamed content through Net ix or iTunes and recorded television programmes.
He spends his spare moments at work reading news articles and books.
Freddie Mercury was our most powerful stage performer, the best live performer weve ever had.
The Spanish team compared the hunter-gatherer to modern Europeans from different regions to see how they might be related.
asked Cool to look forward and imagine what top climbers might do 60 years from now.
The fall of the Berlin Wall helped make Vienna a centre for companies who want to do business in Central Europe.
The activity in Western Australia is adding to the human tragedy of shark attacks.
A quarter of women also pressed the shock button.
You have 20kg to 50kg of gear with you  you cant just walk on the beach and decide you want to go in.
Politician Chuka Umunna said, While some employees welcome the  exibility of zero-hours contracts, for many, zero-hours contracts leave them insecure and unsure of when work will come, he said.
So many of the people I work with dont have the money to have a balanced protein diet and fish is such a clean source of protein  it doesnt cause health problems like other sources and it is something we can farm.
She said closing tax havens, which hold as much as $31 trillion, or as much as a third of all global wealth, could collect $189bn in additional taxes.
But, these days, the golden arches of McDonalds are not looking so golden.
On a canoe, you are not just going from one place to another using the stars, the moon, the sun and the birds.
When they are  nished, the four plants at Ouarzazate will be as big as Moroccos capital city, Rabat, and make 580 mega-watts of electricity, enough for a million homes.
Tom Sanders, a professor of nutrition at Kings College London, said the research showed some differences.
Quali cations: To dive offshore, you must have diving quali cations.
Bolivia, ranked 46, is one of the poorest countries but it has introduced good policies for older people  a national plan on ageing, free health care and a pension for everyone.
says Ingrid Sparbo  she lifts her face to the light and closes her eyes.
Hannah, a 41-year-old lawyer, has made nearly 500 visits for the Mystery Dining Company in her spare time without receiving pay or travel expenses.
Some follow the timetable of Mecca, for example Awan, a father of two young children, including a 12-year-old who recently started fasting.
It records changes in pulse, blood pressure, sweating and breathing to find out if someone is lying.
The positive side is that peoples performance, mood and health will improve.
But, protests have happened less often since the opening day, when small demonstrations took place in several cities and police used pepper spray.
I dont believe she is whiter; its more the makeup, hairstylists and the way she dresses, he said.
What about false memories for more than just places  false memories for objects, food or other mice?
It doesnt mean we see them the same way.
The Environment Minister, Jan Szyszko, is a hunter.
Most winners (59%) give up work straight away, but 19% carry on working and 31% do unpaid voluntary work.
At least, it doesnt if youre doing it on land.
But, for the small Muslim community of Iqaluit, life in the land of the midnight sun is a real challenge during the month of Ramadan, when Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset.
Instead, it has a smartphone app that calls it and tells it the destination, and a STOP button between the two seats in case the passengers need to override the computer.
In the developing world, there is almost no food waste, says Robert van Otterdijk, coordinator of the UN Food and Agriculture Organizations Save Food programme.
A later start to the day for many, says Kelley, is something that would bene t all people, particularly families.
He added that the new method was very helpful in re-examining cases where the cause of death was unclear.
Oxfam said world leaders should learn from countries such as Brazil, which has grown quickly and reduced inequality at the same time.
Rainbows are made when sunlight hits raindrops.
One minute and 12 seconds.
The number of wild royal bengal tigers in Nepal has increased to 198  a 63.6% increase in five years  the survey showed.
It is a majestic rectangle of strong bone, a head of pure strength.
The importance of clean water is becoming harder and harder to ignore  for example, there is another summer of drought in California.
Describing the average sleep loss per night for different age groups, he says: Between 14 and 24, people lose more than two hours.
You also need to have strong personal ethics and to understand the law.
In 1989, when the communists left power, Poland had only one motorway.
It will be somewhere people can come in from the cold to a comfortable chair, a hot cup of tea, a book and a cat.
In Britain, people think that 43% of young adults aged 25-34 still live at home with their parents, rather than the actual 14%.
German-speaking cities do well in the 18th Mercer Quality of Life study, with Vienna, Zurich, Munich, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt in the top seven.
In Britain, people think that 43% of young adults aged 25-34 still live at home with their parents, rather than the actual 14%.
Leahy says yes; Feinstein says no.
One big problem is keeping radio contact with a drone and planning for what happens if that contact breaks.
An Apple spokesman said he has never heard of PRISM.
You could put the mirrors on top of shopping malls.
A British woman made 100,000 to open a cat caf in London through the site.
She said closing tax havens, which hold as much as $31 trillion, or as much as a third of all global wealth, could collect $189bn in additional taxes.
But the company wants to double exports to America in 2014 and will soon start producing teff-based pizzas, bread and cookies.
Shower less, put down the soap and let those lovely little bacteria  ourish.
Subscription services are easily accessible from smartphones and tablets, so they are popular with people who want to try out new music without buying a download or a CD.
We studied a group of current London taxi drivers and a group of retired London taxi drivers, said Dr Hugo Spiers of University College London, who is an author of the study.
Maria van der Hoeven, Executive Director of the IEA, said that the amount of coal we use continues to grow each year and, if no changes are made, coal will catch oil within ten years.
But renting a one-bedroom flat would cost more than 420 a month not including bills, which would use a lot of her earnings.
We are training ourselves to ignore the information that comes into our ears.
Jenna Gavin, 29, lives in the family home where she grew up.
What this means is that names with letters that do not officially exist in Icelands 32-letter alphabet, such as c, are not permitted.
4 Facebook has been the tool to organize revolutions Organizing demonstrations has been revolutionized by Facebook.
Manchester Police said they arrested at least two people at Black Friday sales events.
This gift that we are born with  the ability to hear things hundreds of metres away, all these incredible sounds  might be lost, he said.
Bar customers must  ll out a form or call 311 and include photographs of illegal smoking.
For the first time we have compared data from all over the world on partner violence and sexual violence by non-partners and the effect of these sorts of violence on health, said Garcia-Moreno.
The general public and many academics have underestimated the importance of Stratford to Shakespeare.
5 Facebook makes news, breaks news and decides what is news About 71% of 18- to 24-year-olds and 63% of all users say they get news from the internet.
This is very good news, said Maheshwar Dhakal, an ecologist with Nepals Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation.
The project is a key part of Moroccos plans to use its deserts to become a global solar superpower.
Pub group J D Wetherspoon has 24,000 of its staff  80% of its workforce  on zero-hours contracts.
And we are not producing new bands that can headline  like the Rolling Stones, Muse, even the Arctic Monkeys.
I work hard and am good at my job but, when PizzaExpress thinks it can take a percentage of our tips, I get upset.
36-year-old Junior Smart knows a lot about gangs.
Only Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands and Luxembourg in mainland Europe have no breeding populations of at least one large carnivore species.
On the brains right-hand side, near the top of the head, is one of the brain spots used for family terms: wife, husband, children, parents.
Were just going to continue to fight this battle.
He criticizes internet users who think it is OK to download music or books without paying for them.
Three cameras, which were attached to Baumgartners suit, recorded his free-fall of just over four minutes and then the parachute opening.
She has deleted her Twitter account and deleted her Facebook account two years ago when she realized that she didnt like everyone knowing what I was doing.
In June, a local Islamic group wrote a dress code for foreign tourists.
Brazilians are usually too nice; they enjoy partying, not protesting, but something is changing, said Deli Borsari, a 53-year-old yoga teacher.
In 2006, three Mexicans made international headlines when they were found drifting near the Marshall Islands, also in a small boat.
The panel found that the South Yorkshire Police, led by the Chief Constable, Peter Wright, told their story that drunken fans or those without tickets caused the disaster.
Imagine  a person is told to sit in a chair with wires attached to their skin and a button that will give them a harmless but uncomfortable shock, and they are told to just sit there with their thoughts, she said.
The bacteria of Swiss cheese were found in midtown Manhattan and the  nancial district, and the bacteria used to make kimchi and sauerkraut showed up in the  nancial district and Bay Ridge.
He said the message we need to save the planet was slightly wrong: The planet will get better; its us that wont be here because well destroy the environment.
Starbucks spends hundreds of millions of pounds with local suppliers on milk, cakes and sandwiches, and on store design and improvements.
Deep in its eastwest valley, with high mountains all around, Rjukan and the 3,400 people who live there are in shadow for half the year.
Marketforce shoppers usually get a couple of pounds for a visit, for their time and effort, says Boydell.
Communication between riders and drivers, between different vehicles and between cars and infrastructure is bringing transportation into a new era.
We know our country needs to change.
Instead, he suggests blended learning that combines a campus experience with a MOOC; also, perhaps, using MOOCs to create a global degree, with students taking courses from across the world, might be possible.
He spends his spare moments at work reading news articles and books.
Tourist numbers have reduced by 80% this year, said Mayor Maria Kakali, in an of ce in the village where she grew up.
To succeed as a bomb-disposal diver, you need ... to be calm in stressful situations.
So far, there are detailed maps of about 2,000 miles of Californias roads, but California has more than 170,000 miles of roads.
There will be a full moon on Christmas Day 2015  a complete coincidence, says Swift.
Among those also charged on Thursday were Rafael Salguero, a Guatemalan who left the executive committee in May; the former South American confederation secretary general Eduardo Deluca; former Peruvian football federation president Manuel Burga; and Bolivias football president, Carlos Chaves, already jailed in his own country.
Every village is digging a pit for garbage.
At the moment, they only use the ground floor and first floor of Highclere, on the borders of Hampshire.
Restaurant chains Ask and Zizzi also deduct 8% of the tips paid by card.
But you still hear horror stories from new employees at some chains.
Lovemore, from Zimbabwe, is now one of the poorest people in his village.
But, the rest of us live here all year.
They have got tipping right in Italy, where customers dont add a big tip but usually round up their bill so, if their meal is 19, they leave a 20 note and dont ask for change.
The poll shows that 17% of employers in the private sector use zero-hours contracts, lower than the 34% of organizations in the voluntary sector and 24% in the public sector.
He added that memory researchers have always known that memory does not work like a video camera, recording all the details of anything we experience.
Politician Chuka Umunna said, While some employees welcome the  exibility of zero-hours contracts, for many, zero-hours contracts leave them insecure and unsure of when work will come, he said.
His article comes after music industry leaders met British Prime Minister David Cameron in Downing Street to discuss the issue of web piracy.
But Weiss believes the study could give us a deeper understanding of the emotional crisis some men may experience.
She said she was moved by the arrival of the message, but she did not known her grandfather because he died, at the age of 54, six years before she was born.
In restaurants, because a lot of customers add tips by card, the staff never see how much the tip is  so we dont know if what we get is fair or not.
The Reaper drone, for example, has one failure in 10,000 hours, Singh said.
By 2020, the government hopes that the law will make Japanese employees follow the example of British workers, who take an average of 20 days paid annual leave, and workers in France, who take an average of 25.
He was very friendly and a popular attraction here.
One in the army, one socially in my own private time and one with the family.
The people who are waiting outside are lucky.
When Im drumming, it gives me power because were still alive and survivors, she says.
He also has the support of a sports psychologist and an exercise regime to help him run 11km during a game.
It has been a remarkable few years for our royal family  a royal wedding, that extraordinary and magnificent jubilee and now this royal birth.
I asked how she did it: very slow breathing for several minutes before each dive, then a big, deep breath before diving in.
Oxfam said the world could end poverty several times over if the richest 100 billionaires would give away the money they made in 2012.
You dont realize how safe Vienna is until you go abroad, said Hartlauer.
The number of 19-to-21-year-olds who visit McDonalds once a month has fallen by 13% since 2011.
What the job involves: A company pays an ethical hacker to hack into its computer system to see how well it might  ght a real attack.
A little later, the football club secretary arrived to pay the officials for their time  the match fee at level 5 is 95 so it is clear that these men do not do it for the money.
The only rules were that they had to stay sitting and not fall asleep.
The thought of children across the country running every day because of something weve done is amazing.
It doesnt mean we see them the same way.
The retail company Sports Direct employs around 20,000 of its 23,000 staff on zero-hours contracts.
The team from the US, Japan, Germany and the UK asked zookeepers and others who worked with male and female apes of various ages to complete questionnaires on the animals.
If you are part of the 1%, you still have problems.
Now, I hope, men and women who want to start a family but havent met the right person yet will have another choice, says Limal.
The actor Mark Rylance has called the First Folio his favourite book in the world and most of the surviving First Folios will be on display  including those that belong to the British and Bodleian libraries, and a copy recently discovered in France.
Bar customers must  ll out a form or call 311 and include photographs of illegal smoking.
Dhakal said that there was a similar survey in India and the results from both countries will be published later in 2013.
Smokers are the key group for e-cigarette companies because seven out of ten vapers are smokers.
Lots of her friends cant pay for heating or medicine and many would be hungry if they did not get food from the East Hampton Food Pantry, she says.
The astronauts will not return to Earth.
What the job involves: A company pays an ethical hacker to hack into its computer system to see how well it might  ght a real attack.
I dont believe she is whiter; its more the makeup, hairstylists and the way she dresses, he said.
Early on Saturday morning, he reached the summit of Nuptse, the first of the three main summits in the Everest horseshoe.
Marketforce shoppers usually get a couple of pounds for a visit, for their time and effort, says Boydell.
When water evaporates from the oceans, the vapour can rise over nine miles to form rain clouds that reflect sunlight; or, it may rise just a few miles and fall slowly back down without forming clouds.
Riley, as a young referee, bought himself books on psychology and nutrition because there was no information on offer to him at all.
The staff and I have been sad.
Race engineer A race engineer takes information from the driver and gives it to the mechanics.
The website ATMInventor.com says: Who invented the idea of an ATM?
